mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the rules package that we have before us today .  it is outrageous that my republican colleagues have placed before us a rules package that at best lacks integrity , and at worst is completely unethical .  as the highest body of elected officials in our country , we should be held to the highest ethical standards .  but instead , my republican colleagues have opted to put before us a rules package that actually lowers our ethics standards , so that they may promote their own agenda , at whatever cost .  this rules package makes it far more difficult for ethics investigations to take place .  by requiring a majority of the ethics committee before an investigation can even begin , we are in great danger of diminishing the integrity of our great institution .  with this new rule , the majority party can effectively block any ethics investigation of a member of their party .  this is an abuse of power .  and it 's not just democrats who oppose this plan .  americans across the country have expressed their opposition to this plan .  my democratic colleagues and i have a better plan that will strengthen the ethics rules to improve congressional accountability and to make sure that legislation is properly considered .  the republican plan fails to close a loophole that allows legislation to be considered before members have read it .  last year this led to the passage of a provision that would have let the federal government deeply invade citizens ' privacy by reading their tax returns .  i am appalled that the republicans have failed to include the democratic provision to tighten this loophole .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the resolution , so that we do not allow this rules package to become law .  mr. speaker , i rise for a constitutional point of order .  mr. speaker , the resolution we are preparing to consider , the proposed rules for the 109th congress , in my judgment violates the united states constitution which we were just sworn to uphold and defend .  it does so by allowing a very limited number of members , potentially only a handful , to constitute the house of representatives .  article 1 , section 5 of the constitution states that `` each house shall be the judge of the elections , returns and qualifications of its members , and a majority of each shall constitute a quorum to do business ; but a small number adjourn from day to day , and may be authorized to compel the attendance of absent members. '' unfortunately , h. res. 5 seeks to allow a small number not just to adjourn or compel attendance , as the constitution stipulates , but to enact laws , declare war , impeach the president , and fulfill all other article i responsibilities .  the very first act of the very first congress of the united states was to recess day after day after day because they lacked a quorum .  just moments ago everyone in this body took an oath to uphold and defend the constitution , and now our first official vote is by rule to undermine a fundamental principle of that constitution , i.e. , what is a quorum .  it is my understanding that the speaker is reluctant to judge on matters of constitutionality .  i respect that .  but i would reserve and inform the speaker it is my intent to ask the question of consideration to be put .  mr. speaker , consistent with the oath of office that i just took , i would request that the question of consideration be put to the body .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this balanced rules package .  i want to speak particularly to the provisions regarding homeland security .  to determine whether a proposed regime to oversee homeland security is appropriate , one can not just look at a flow chart .  the simplest structure is not necessarily the best , nor is one that is unduly complex .  one has to look at how a proposed structure will actually function and what it can and can not accomplish .  the homeland jurisdiction being proposed in this package strikes the right balance between a system that is too centralized and one that is too diffuse .  first , i should say that the most important and necessary change regarding governance of the department of homeland security was made 2 years ago when we created a subcommittee on homeland security on the committee on appropriations .  but having a single committee that can look across the department of homeland security from an authorizing perspective is also a sensible move , and the new committee created in this package will do that .  what would not make sense , however , simple as it might seem , is giving sole authority over all aspects of homeland security to the new committee .  homeland security is too diffuse and important a government activity to rest with one committee .  almost every activity of every federal agency has some relationship to homeland security , and almost every activity of the department of homeland security impinges on the activities of other agencies .  an appropriate congressional oversight structure has to take account of that basic fact .  a structure that overly centralized homeland security oversight would make it harder to evaluate the department of homeland security in the context of the other activities of the federal government .  an overcentralized structure could also make a congressional committee a captive of the agency that it oversees .  i know that it is very easy to denigrate arguments against a single , centralized select committee on homeland security as so much turf fighting .  but in reality it is simply intellectually lazy to assume that a centralized structure would enable congress to do its work more effectively .  i found especially ironic a washington post editorial that called for a highly centralized structure .  the editorial argued that a centralized committee would be more efficient because the department of homeland security would not have to answer questions from a lot of different committees .  well , it would also be more efficient if the department did not have to respond to questions from a lot of different news outlets , but presumably the post would argue that there are advantages to forcing the department to respond to reporters with a variety of areas of expertise and a variety of perspectives .  the post certainly would not want the only news outlet to be an in-house publication .  so i want to applaud the house leadership for doing what it has done , and i stand in strong support of this rules package .  mr. speaker , the chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct is correct when he says that ethics reform must be bipartisan and if the house is to have meaningful bipartisan ethics process , changes of this magnitude can be made , as they were in 1997 , only after thoughtful , careful consideration on a bipartisan basis .  there has been no effort to look at the rules changes on ethics in a bipartisan manner .  in 1997 when i co-chaired the committee on ethics reform along with bob livingston , the changes that we made were done after deliberation , and after democrats and republicans , working together , came before the house and we did make major changes .  and we instituted the 45-day rule for assigning a proper complaint for investigation ; but we changed the rules in 1997 .  we made it clear that you can move towards an informal investigation without a finding that it merits further inquiry or a resolution of preliminary inquiry because we did not want any matter of guilt or wrongdoing for the committee to be able to get the facts necessary to decide whether to go to formal investigation .  yet this rules change which would allow after 45 days inaction to dismiss a complaint makes inaction action , and it can be done on a very partisan basis .  now , that is wrong .  that is not how it should be .  the rules as they are currently configured in order to move a complaint past the committee , you have to have the bipartisan agreement of the committee because you have to have a vote in the committee .  it guarantees a process will move forward in a bipartisan manner and , in fact , the committee on standards of official conduct has operated in a bipartisan manner because of the way the rules are configured .  if this rule is changed , you are making it much more likely that the committee on standards of official conduct will act in a very partisan matter because they will be able to delay for 45 days , which does not take a lot of effort to figure out how to delay for 45 days .  we have enough lawyers on the committee on standards of official conduct that will be able to figure out that one .  and it will be done on a partisan basis that will leave a cloud on the member and a cloud on this institution .  you should not have that in this rule .  mr. speaker , we are making a terrible mistake here today by changing the rule in terms of the provision that would simply require no action after a 45-day period because , as the earlier speaker immediately preceding me indicated , what we will have done is change a nonpartisan committee that is based on a nonpartisan process into one that provides for a partisan veto over action where the behavior of an individual member or members is at question .  that , i suggest and submit , is something that this institution will suffer from .  there has been much discussion recently regarding this package .  it was anticipated that there would be additional provisions that were not submitted today , but let us be clear what is at risk here .  it is the confidence of the american people in the integrity of this institution .  perception , as we all know , is reality .  and when the american people understand very clearly that we now have a committee on standards of official conduct in which either side has a veto , it will undermine the confidence of the people in our ethical process .  my question to the proponents would be , what is wrong with the current rules ?  we have operated on them .  mr. speaker , i offer a privileged resolution ( h. res. 5 ) and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purposes of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  or her designee , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  during consideration of the resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this rules package .  i am also rising in support of the historic legislative agenda it will govern , for today marks the beginning of what historians will likely look back upon as the most productive and significant congress in decades .  the mandate granted the majority , evidenced by our increased majorities in both houses of congress and the first presidential majority in 16 years , is clear .  the american people have entrusted the state of their security , prosperity and families to us ; and over the course of the next 2 years , that sacred trust will be honored by action .  we will continue to defend our homeland and prosecute the war on terror without retreat , and without excuses .  we will provide our military , and their families , with the resources they need to do their heroic work on behalf of the nation they serve .  we will hold rogue regimes accountable for their mischief , and hold fast to our friends around the world , from defiant democrats in israel and taiwan , to longstanding comrades-in-arms like the british and australians , to our resurgent allies in new europe .  we will work with our ever-expanding coalition of the willing to secure the fledging democracies in afghanistan and iraq , and with every political , economic , diplomatic and military tool at our disposal , see the war on terror through to victory .  domestically , our agenda will be no less audacious .  we will continue the work begun in president bush 's first term to cultivate an opportunity society of economic choice and independence .  we will continue to break down the walls , erected by 40 years of liberal policies , between the american people and their dreams .  we will continue to provide seniors with access to affordable , quality health care while empowering them with unprecedented retirement security .  we will continue to take on the three-headed monster of over-taxation , over-litigation and over-regulation that cuts the legs out from every sector of our economy .  and while the 109th congress helps increase our national security and prosperity , we will also help american families raise their children in a society defined by the values that made our nation secure and prosperous in the first place .  we will continue to better protect and educate our children , to protect the institution of marriage , to protect the constitution from judicial activism , and protect the role of family and faith in the public square .  this rules package before us now will help us do this important work , work the american people have hired us to do .  and yet , rather than laying out a positive vision for the next 2 years , or for that matter even discussing the substance of the rules package itself , some may choose this debate to launch the first of what i imagine will be countless personal attacks against the integrity of the majority and , ultimately , the integrity of this institution .  it is a new year , mr. speaker , but an old game , and one to which we can not afford to stoop .  too much is at stake ; too much depends on the success of this historic 109th congress .  to my friends on the other side of the aisle , i would remind them all that i know what it means to be in the minority , to go into contentious votes certain of defeat , to always react to an agenda set by opponents .  but i must also remind them that when republicans were in the minority , we engaged in the battle of ideas .  we developed , and specifically proposed , a substantive vision for the future of our nation .  in the 10 years since that vision was endorsed by our countrymen , we have been honored to work with all members of the minority on one issue or the other to develop successful legislative coalitions .  with our close partisan margins and 24-hour media culture , we sometimes forget we are opponents , not enemies .  we would all do well to remember that , especially given the stakes , the significance and , frankly , the sheer weight of the agenda before us .  so i urge all members to support the rules package before us so we can immediately get to work on behalf of the men and women who sent us here .  mr. speaker , i am honored to once again serve as leader ; but even with all of the gratitude i feel toward you , our conference and toward this body , the source of the honor i feel today is not all in this chamber .  the source of the honor each of us rightfully feels today is our friends and families who have given us their love , the american people who have given us their trust , the men and women in uniform who put their lives on the line for us every day , and our heavenly creator who knitted us together in the womb .  mr. speaker , may god bless the work and workers of the 109th congress , may god bless the cause of justice and freedom around the world , and may god continue to bless the united states of america .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the balance of the time allocated to me be controlled by the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  .  mr. speaker , as has been the case for a number of years , the rules package put forward by my republican colleagues continues to trample on the rights of the minority .  it will do nothing to stop the abusive practices in this house such as the 3-hour vote on the medicare bill in the middle of the night .  in fact , it allows the speaker added discretion to reconsider votes that the republican majority loses .  in addition , the new rules require an affirmative vote by the ethics committee before any action can be taken .  this , in effect , gives my republican colleagues the right to block any investigation .  i would like to focus on one portion of the package that will create a permanent committee on homeland security .  while i am sure some of my colleagues believe that the new committee will improve our security , unfortunately this new committee will be nothing more than a costly addition to the expenditures of the legislative branch , and it will likely breed a new wave of `` turf warfare '' among the committees of the house .  we simply do not need a special committee every time we face a crisis .  the process under which we are being asked to approve this change is particularly troublesome .  i call your attention to the last time the house felt compelled to create a new committee .  in 1980 , some members of the house believed that it would be wise to create an energy committee .  it used a careful process in which a committee on committees was created , consisting of democrats and republicans .  when that committee reported its recommendations to the house , substitutes were permitted , and the result reflected a thoughtful understanding of how best to achieve the objectives .  in contrast , we are now being asked to consider a proposal which was sent to us just yesterday .  it was hatched in secret by our republican colleagues without the input of any democrats .  while many of my democratic colleagues may agree with the need for a new committee , the right of the minority to have their views considered and voted upon has been trampled once again .  i also oppose the notion that a new committee is needed .  if the main concern is one of oversight , we can use our existing committees to do the job .  if members still believed that a new committee was necessary , it need not have legislative jurisdiction .  i am certain that is such a committee had legislative recommendations of merit , the appropriate committees along with proper actions by respective party leaders would ensure the bill would come to the floor .  instead , i foresee a new committee that will seek to increase its powers by introducing bills granting all manner of new authorities to the department of homeland security .  in addition , thoughtful bills addressing aspects of homeland security reported by the existing committees will now be delayed as the new committee will seek referrals .  and needed responsiveness by the executive branch to the existing committees may be hindered .  while the 9/11 commission urged a reorganization of congressional committees to deal with homeland security , it is odd that this new committee will have no jurisdiction over the issues that were identified by the commission that led to the 9/11 tragedy .  the new committee will have no jurisdiction over the intelligence community , the law enforcement community , or immigration enforcement .  it is a shame that the first day of this new congress should be marked by an attempt to authorize a new committee without so much as an open markup to consider its merits .  moreover , it would be extremely unwise to ignore the expertise and experience of existing committees as we address homeland security issues , but we are starting down that path today .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i just want to say to the gentlewoman from rochester , new york ( ms. slaughter )  that every single member of this institution , democrat and republican alike , is very concerned and focused on the integrity of this institution ; and i believe that that is something which is an extraordinarily high priority for all of us .  i believe that the package that we have coming before us is one which addresses many of the concerns that frankly were raised by the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me say after having heard from two of my committee on rules colleagues that i anxiously look forward to working with them in a bipartisan way to try to proceed with the deliberations in consideration of measures of this house .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would like to respond to my very good friend from maryland by saying that i may not be as eloquent today as i was when i was in the minority , but i continue to share my very strong commitment to ensure the integrity and the behavior of members of this institution .  i also will say as my friend said , it is very clear that the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley )  , chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , has made it clear that he is supportive of this package .  i and my colleagues looked at these recommendations , all of which emerged from members and former members of the committee on standards of official conduct .  i also believe that it is very possible for us to maintain the highest ethical standards and to continue to ensure , to now ensure that due process is entitled to members of this institution as they proceed with matters before that committee .  so i believe that this package is one which should enjoy strong bipartisan support , because when it comes to matters of ethics it will address the concern and the protection of members of both the minority and the majority , as well as this institution as a whole .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i will be happy to respond to the gentleman .  let me say we are in the midst of a discussion about ethics at this point .  obviously , it is our goal to maintain the highest ethical standards .  we have a law , which is actually a criminal law , which states that it is a violation of 18 u.s. code 607 for the solicitation of campaign contributions from federal property .  the idea behind this change that is included in this rules package is that members should not be required to carry two separate cell phones with them .  this would allow campaign funds to be used for the purchase of a cell phone that might be used for calling your office or other official purposes .  but the law which prevents the solicitation of campaign contributions from federal property in fact is maintained and is one we that feel very strongly about .  in any federal building whatsoever .  on federal property is what the law says .  it is a violation of the law .  it is a violation of the law .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the chair may reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for electronic voting on the motion to commit and the vote on the adoption of h. res. 5 if the votes immediately follow a 15-minute vote , notwithstanding intervening proceedings attending the administration of the oath of office to members-elect .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on this rules package .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , we have a great rules package that is coming before us , a rules package which i believe is deserving of bipartisan support .  the reason i say it is deserving of bipartisan support is that is the word that has been used by members on both sides of the aisle to describe exactly what we have been doing here and should be doing here .  mr. speaker , this package includes a number of very important provisions .  it allows us to deal with the prospect of a horrendous attack on this institution , and it allows us to continue this institution 's operations so the american people will understand that this institution stands even at a time of great crisis .  this rules package allows for the establishment of a new permanent standing committee on homeland security , as the speaker outlined in his opening remarks here today .  i believe that is something that will allow democrats and republicans to spend time working on that issue .  mr. speaker , this is a rules package which allows for bipartisan process at the ethics committee level .  the committee on standards of official conduct is the committee which has the responsibility of working to ensure the integrity of all of the members of this institution .  the package we have before us does just that .  i believe that the statement made by the chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley )  , is very clear .  he understands that the provisions included in this package will in fact maintain the integrity of this institution .  he was not going to support the earlier package ; he is supporting this package .  the issue of bipartisanship is important because in this package we ensure that we will not see the politicization of the ethics process which tragically we have seen in the past , because it will require bipartisanship , which all members are talking about , if we do proceed with the investigatory process .  that is the right thing to do , and i believe this package should in fact enjoy the support of democrats and republicans alike because it is designed to protect this institution and its members .  mr. speaker , the house is an institution built upon its rules .  accordingly , it is appropriate that one of the first orders of business of the 109th congress will be to adopt a rules package which is both true to its traditions and forward-thinking in its outlook .  the package we have before us represents the work product of many members .  during the initial stages of compiling this package , back in november , the rules committee received 40 difference proposals form both democrats and republicans .  in addition , our committee staff has actively sought the input of the officers of the house , its committees , and its caucuses to get their perspectives on the kinds of changes we can make to facilitate the work of the house .  while not every proposal we received was incorporated into this package , i assure you that each received substantial consideration by the speaker and the rules committee .  and , as always , the rules committee will continue to review our rules and operations to see where other improvements can be made .  mr. speaker , all of the ideals contained in this resolution reflect the considered judgment of our colleagues , and will ultimately improve our ability to carry out our constitutional responsibilities .  while i will detail each of these changes in the section-by-section that i will place in the record , i want to elaborate on just a few of these changes .  the gentlewoman from virginia ( mrs. jo ann davis ) is the author of one important provision directing committees to review matters within their jurisdiction to ferret out duplicative government programs as part of their oversight planning at the beginning of each congress .  there are a number of instances where we are conforming the rules to reflect current house practice , such as with the designation of leadership members of the budget committee and the taking of recesses in committee to allow flexibility on our schedules .  we are also making the ability to consider suspensions on wednesdays permanent in this congress after our successful experiment in the 108th congress .  the package includes important provisions to allow us to function in situations where large numbers of members are incapacitated .  the `` provisional quorum '' language includes a number of safeguards to ensure that this institution can continue to operate during times of turmoil and democracy will be preserved .  as we search for permanent solutions to the problems facing us in the post-9/11 era , this is an important step in meeting our responsibilities .  we will also eliminate the corrections calendar .  while this was originally intended to make it easier to consider legislation making corrections to outright errors in law , it turned out to be more cumbersome than other procedures , such as consideration under suspension of the rules .  and yes , mr. speaker , in a change guaranteed to draw applause from my colleagues , the house rules will now allow us to make reference to the senate and its members , so long as those references are confined to the question under debate and avoid personality .  the senate has long had similar provisions and this new rule merely conforms our rules to theirs .  i know that my colleagues and i share the desire to maintain our traditions of dignity and decorum in proceedings , and will do so even with this rules change .  on another topic , the package makes a series of changes to our ethics rules .  we included two provisions suggested by the chairman and ranking member of the standards committee : ( 1 ) clarifying the rule on officially connected travel to allow a family member other than a spouse or child to travel with the member at the sponsor 's expense , and ( 2 ) conforming the rules of the house to current law which allow the use of campaign funds to pay for certain official expenses , such as a cellphone .  we also included provision suggested by the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson ) to conform the rules of the house to current law with regard to the 90-day pre-election limit on franked mail .  the package also includes two other provisions addressing our ethics rules .  the first gives members the same rights to choose their counsel before the ethics committee that they would enjoy if they were a respondent in a court case .  the second change addresses an inequity in the standards committee process requiring an investigative subcommittee if the chairman and ranking member do n't act within 45 days .  this change restores the presumption of innocence in our process .  as important as each of those changes are , mr. speaker , perhaps the most important change in this resolution will be the creation of a new standing committee on homeland security .  it represents a far-reaching and critically important part of our overall strategic effort to protect the american people .  the 9/11 commission unanimously called for this action .  they saw the need , and we believe most members do , too .  over the past 3 years , the congress has asked the american people to accept change in countless ways .  we have mandated change at the federal , state , and local levels .  we have asked for change from our allies and forced change upon our enemies .  and we saw the need for change over 2 years ago , and we responded , first with the enactment of the homeland security act of 2002 , and then with the formation of the select committee on homeland security .  their final report , a thorough and complete study of homeland security jurisdiction as it relates to house rules , was transmitted to my committee at the end of last year .  these measures made it clear to me and many other members that steps need to be taken to further ensure the safety of the american people .  the rules committee thoroughly reviewed the select committee 's report and recommended a comprehensive and thoughtful reform effort that mirrors the recommendations of the 9/11 commission : the formation of a permanent committee on homeland security .  this change in house rule x , which governs the committee and their legislative jurisdictions , is delicately crafted architecture .  it draws to the new committee only jurisdiction directly related to our defense against terrorism .  thus , it creates a primary committee while recognizing the other legitimate oversight roles of existing committees .  it acknowledges the expertise and experience residing in other committees and leaves with them jurisdiction that may have a homeland security implication but not a direct policy relationship .  the house must have one central point where we , as national legislators , sort out the critical questions of securing our homeland without sacrificing our free society or a stable economy .  however , we envision a system of `` purposeful redundancy. '' by that we mean more than one level of oversight and an atmosphere in which the competition of ideas is encouraged .  with this jurisdiction and the legislative history that i will place in the record , the department of homeland security will have more certainty as to which committee has the primary responsibility for homeland security .  at the same time , the american people will live with the assurance that we are working to prevent anything from falling through the cracks .  mr. speaker , the new committee will have jurisdiction over : ( 1 ) overall homeland security policy ; ( 2 ) the organization and administration of the department of homeland security ; and ( 3 ) functions of the department of homeland security relating to border and port security ( except immigration policy and non-border enforcement ) , customs ( except customs revenue ) , the integration , analysis , and dissemination of homeland security information , domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism , research and development , and transportation security .  by approving this resolution , the house will do what the speaker and the 9/11 commission has asked it to do : consolidate jurisdiction of the house in one committee .  this committee will be dedicated to setting national homeland security policy and to effectively overseeing that the department of homeland security carries out its mission .  mr. speaker , in making these changes , i want to note several points for the record .  first , referrals to the select committee on homeland security in the 108th congress will not be considered a precedent for referrals in the 109th congress .  second , at the request of mr. thomas , i am placing a document into the record regarding understandings between the department of treasury and the department of homeland security .  third , because the department continues to evolve , references to a department , agency , bureau , office , or subdivision include a reference to successor entities to the extent that the successor engages in homeland security activities now conducted by the department , agency , bureau , office , or subdivision referred to in the legislative history .  for example , the homeland security act of 2002 transferred the office of domestic preparedness to the department of homeland security , to `` have the primary responsibility within the executive branch of government for preparedness of the u.s. for acts of terrorism. '' subsequently , its name has been changed by the department to `` office of state and local government coordination and preparedness ( slgcp ) '' although its mission stays the same .  finally , i welcome questions from my colleagues about jurisdictional matters related to this change .  however , i want to caution all members that referrals are solely within the speaker 's power , and , in my answers , i will not infringe upon the power .  once again , i appreciate the input from all of you regarding the 109th rules package , and i feel that with your assistance , we will make the rules of the house stronger and make for a safer country .  mr. speaker , i am inserting for the record the following legislative history regarding the changes made by this resolution to rule x , along with supporting materials .  legislative history to accompany changes to rule x rule x and the committee on homeland security & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; legislative history overall homeland security policy -- the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security over `` overall homeland security policy '' is to be interpreted on a government-wide or multi-agency basis similar to the committee on government reform 's jurisdiction over `` overall economy , efficiency , and management of government operations and activities .  ... .. '' surgical addresses of homeland security policy in sundry areas of jurisdiction occupied by other committees would not be referred to the committee on homeland security on the basis of `` overall '' homeland security policy jurisdiction .  for example , the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over a bill coordinating the homeland security efforts by all of the critical infrastructure protection sectors .  jurisdiction over a bill addressing the protection of a particular sector would lie with the committee otherwise having jurisdiction over that sector .  organization and administration of the department of homeland security -- the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security would apply only to organizational or administrative aspects of the department where another committee 's jurisdiction did not clearly apply .  the committee 's jurisdiction is to be confined to organizational and administrative efforts and would not apply to programmatic efforts within the department of homeland security within the jurisdiction of other committees .  homeland security oversight -- this would vest the committee on homeland security with oversight jurisdiction over the homeland security community of the united states .  nothing in this clause shall be construed as prohibiting or otherwise restricting the authority of any other committee to study and review homeland security activities to the extent that such activity directly affects a matter otherwise within the jurisdiction of that committee .  individual committee concerns agriculture -- the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security over `` border and port security '' shall be limited to agricultural importation and entry inspection activities of the department of homeland security under section 421 of the homeland security act of 2002 .  the committee on agriculture shall retain jurisdiction over animal and plant disease policy including the authority reserved to the department of agriculture to regulate policy under section 421 of the homeland security act of 2002 , and the animal health protection act , the plant protection act , the plant quarantine act , and the agriculture quarantine inspection user fee account .  the committee on agriculture shall retain jurisdiction over the agricultural research and diagnosis armed services -- the committee on armed services shall retain jurisdiction over warfighting , the military defense of the united states , and other military activities , including any military response to terrorism , pursuant to section 876 of the homeland security act of 2002 .  energy and commerce -- the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over measures that address the department of homeland security 's activities for domestic preparedness and collective response to terrorism .  the words `` to terrorism '' require a direct relation to terrorism .  the committee on homeland security 's jurisdiction over `` collective response to terrorism '' means that it shall receive referrals of bills addressing the department of homeland security 's responsibilities for , and assistance to , first responders as a whole .  the committee on energy and commerce ( and other relevant committees ) shall retain their jurisdiction over bills addressing the separate entities that comprise the first responders .  for example , the committee on energy and commerce shall retain its jurisdiction over a bill directing the department of health and human services to train emergency medical personnel .  financial services -- the committee on financial services shall retain jurisdiction over the national flood insurance program and emergency food and shelter program of fema , and the defense production act .  the committee on financial services shall retain its jurisdiction over the anti-money laundering , terrorist financing , and anti-counterfeiting activities within the department of the treasury and the financial regulators .  government reform -- the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over `` the organization and administration of the department of homeland security. '' the committee on government reform shall retain jurisdiction over federal civil service , the overall economy , efficiency , and management of government operations and activities , including federal procurement , and federal paperwork reduction .  the committee on government reform shall retain jurisdiction over government-wide information management efforts including the federal information security management act .  the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over intelligence -- the permanent select committee on intelligence shall retain jurisdiction over the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of all departments and agencies of the federal government , including the office of the director of national intelligence and the national counterterrorism center as defined in the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 .  judiciary -- the committee on the judiciary shall retain jurisdiction over immigration policy and non-border enforceme4tn of the immigration laws .  its jurisdiction over immigration policy shall include matters such as the immigration and naturalization process , numbers of aliens ( including immigrants and non-immigrants ) allowed , classifications and lengths of allowable stay , the adjudication of immigration petitions and the requirements for the same , the domestic adjudication of immigration petitions and applications submitted to the department of labor or the department of homeland security and setting policy with regard to visa issuance and acceptance .  its jurisdiction over non-border enforcement shall be limited to those aspects of immigration enforcement not associated with the immediate entry of individuals into the country , including those aspects of the bureau of immigration and customs enforcement .  the science -- the committee on science shall retain some jurisdiction over the research and development activities of the department of homeland security as such matters are incidental to the committee on science 's existing jurisdiction ( except where those activities are in the jurisdiction of another committee ) .  transportation and infrastructure -- the committee on transportation and infrastructure shall retain jurisdiction over the coast guard .  however , the committee on homeland security has jurisdiction over port security , and some coast guard responsibilities in that area will fall within the jurisdiction of both committees .  jurisdiction over emergency preparedness will be split between the committee on transportation and infrastructure and the committee on homeland security .  the committee on transportation and infrastructure shall retain its jurisdiction under clause 1 ( r ) ( 2 ) over `` federal management of emergencies and natural disasters. '' this means that the committee retains its general jurisdiction over the emergency preparedness and response operations of the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) .  bills addressing fema 's general preparation for disaster from any cause shall be referred as indicated earlier , the committee on homeland security 's jurisdiction over `` collective response to terrorism '' means that it would receive referrals of bills addressing the department of homeland security 's responsibilities for , and assistance to , first responders as a whole and not over measures addressing first responder communities individually .  the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over the functions of the department of homeland security relating to transportation security , while the committee on transportation and infrastructure shall retain its jurisdiction over transportation safety .  in general , the committee on homeland security would have jurisdiction over bills addressing the transportation security administration and the committee on transportation and infrastructure would have jurisdiction over bills addressing the various entities within the department of transportation having responsibility for transportation safety , such as the federal aviation administration and the federal motor carrier safety administration .  the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security does not ways and means -- the jurisdiction of the committee on ways and means over `` customs revenue '' is intended to include those functions contemplated in section 412 ( b ) ( 2 ) of the homeland security act of 2002 and includes those functions as carried out in collection districts and ports of entry and delivery .  secretary of the treasury , date : may 15 , 2003 .  subject : delegation from the secretary of the treasury to the secretary of homeland security of general authority over customs revenue functions vested in the secretary of the treasury as set forth in the homeland security act of 2002 .  by virtue of the authority vested in me as the secretary of the treasury , including the authority vested by 31 u.s.c .  321 ( b ) and section 412 of the homeland security act of 2002 ( pub .  l. 107-296 ) ( act ) , it is hereby ordered : 1 .  consistent with the transfer of the functions , personnel , assets , and liabilities of the united states customs service to the department of homeland security as set forth in section 403 ( 1 ) of the act , there is hereby delegated to the secretary of homeland security the authority related to the customs revenue functions vested in the secretary of the treasury as set forth in sections 412 and 415 of the act , subject to the following exceptions and to paragraph 6 of this delegation of authority : ( a ) ( i ) the secretary of the treasury retains the sole authority to approve any regulations concerning import quotas or trade bans , user fees , marking , labeling , copyright and trademark enforcement , and the completion of entry or substance of entry summary including duty assessment and collection , classification , valuation , application of the u.s. harmonized tariff schedules , eligibility or requirements for preferential trade programs , and the establishment of recordkeeping requirements relating thereto .  the secretary of homeland security shall provide a copy of all regulations so approved to the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means and the chairman and ranking member of the committee on finance every six months .  ( ii ) the secretary of the treasury shall retain the authority to review , modify , or revoke any determination or ruling that falls within the criteria set forth in paragraph 1 ( a ) ( i ) , and that is under consideration pursuant to the procedures set forth in sections 516 and 625 ( c ) of the tariff act of 1930 , as amended ( 19 u.s.c .  1516 and 1625 ( c ) ) .  the secretary of homeland security periodically shall identify and describe for the secretary of the treasury such determinations and rulings that are under consideration under sections 516 and 625 ( c ) of the tariff act of 1930 , as amended , in an appropriate and timely manner , with consultation as necessary , prior to the secretary of homeland security 's exercise of such authority .  the secretary of homeland security shall provide a copy of these identifications ( b ) paragraph 1 ( a ) notwithstanding , if the secretary of homeland security finds an overriding , immediate , and extraordinary security threat to public health and safety , the secretary of homeland security may take action described in paragraph 1 ( a ) without the prior approval of the secretary of the treasury .  however , immediately after taking any such action , the secretary of homeland security shall certify in writing to the secretary of the treasury and to the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means and the chairman and ranking member of the committee on finance the specific reasons therefor .  the action shall terminate within 14 days or as long as the overriding , immediate , and extraordinary security threat exists , whichever is shorter , unless the secretary of the treasury approves the continued action and provides notice of such ( c ) the advisory committee on commercial operations of the customs service ( coac ) shall be jointly appointed by the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security .  meetings of coac shall be presided over jointly by the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security .  the coac shall advise the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security jointly .  2 .  any references in this delegation of authority to the secretary of the treasury or the secretary of homeland security are deemed to include their respective delegees , if any .  3 .  this delegation of authority is not intended to create or confer any right , privilege , or benefit on any private person , including any person in litigation with the united states .  4 .  treasury order no .  165-09 , `` maintenance of delegation in respect to general authority over customs revenue functions vested in the secretary of the treasury , as set forth and defined in the homeland security act of 2002 , '' dated february 28 , 2003 , is rescinded .  to this extent this delegation of authority requires any revocation of any other prior order or directive of the secretary of the treasury , such prior order or directive is hereby revoked .  5 .  this delegation of authority is effective may 14 , 2003 .  this delegation is subject to review on may 14 , 2004 .  by march 15 , 2004 , the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security shall consult with the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means and the chairman and ranking member of the committee on finance to discuss the upcoming review of this delegation .  6 .  the secretary of the treasury reserves the right to rescind or modify this delegation of authority , promulgate regulations , or exercise authority at any time based upon the statutory authority reserved to the secretary by the act .  john w. snow , mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  the gentlewoman is correct : i currently serve on the committee on standards of official conduct .  and despite what i read in the morning papers , the republican leadership is eliminating a major traditional ethics standard of the house .  while we are relieved that the republican leadership did not go as far as they wanted to , i do not think we can be happy with the trend that is clearly downwards as it is today .  the new rule means no ethics violations will be investigated of party leaders , whether they be republican or democratic , control their members , since a tie vote means a dismissal .  the logical result is more partisan political pressure on the committee members .  america was intended to be a city on a hill with the highest standards for the government in the world ; and sadly , today we are lowering those standards .  the majority is proud of their political power and their skills at political games , and politics is an important part of our business ; but principles must be held above politics because no man can serve two masters , both principles and politics .  when we are guided by only political consideration in the house leadership today , the house abandons its principles and the moral compass .  i do not enjoy serving on the committee .  i do know something about legislative ethics , having first been elected to the state house of representatives after a tremendous sharpstown bank scandal in texas 1972 .  born and raised in texas , i understand what it means about conservative government , but i can not begin to explain how eliminating a traditional ethics standard is conservative in the slightest .  the house leadership can fool some of the people some of the time , like they did today when the papers said they were dropping ethics changes , when they clearly continue to weaken the standards .  however , the people recognize this for what it is , a weakening of our government 's ethics in pursuit of political parity by one party , be it democrat or republican .  mr. speaker , i am pleased that the rules package includes a provision that will make the homeland security committee a permanent committee .  more importantly , we will be giving the committee real oversight and legislative jurisdiction .  but i am disappointed that the majority has only given shared jurisdiction to the homeland security committee in some areas .  this creates the potential for ongoing turf battles that the 9/11 commission warned against .  i am also discouraged that the majority has decided to add a third day of suspension bills to the legislative calendar each week .  an increasing amount of legislation is being passed by the house under a suspension of the rules .  this is unnecessary and keeps us from doing the real business of the house -- budgeting , appropriations and oversight .  a perfect example of this is the massive omnibus appropriations bill passed for fiscal year 2005 just a few weeks ago .  this bill was rushed to the floor , ignoring the house rule requiring a 3-day review period before voting on conference reports .  only after the house voted on the bill , careful scrutiny of the language uncovered a provision allowing certain members and staff access to any american 's tax return .  not only was this an embarrassing episode for the house leadership , it continued a troubling trend .  in 4 out of the last 5 years , the majority has made a massive omnibus bill the only option to fund the government .  this take-it-or-leave-it approach is not acceptable and is fiscally irresponsible .  congress has also been asleep at the switch when it comes to funding for iraq and the war on terrorism .  this administration continues to fund the war on terrorism by supplemental appropriations .  this is not a temporary war .  congress needs to stand up to this white house , stand up for honest budgeting , and require that funding for iraq and the war on terrorism be made on-budget , and through the regular appropriations process .  by appropriating through omnibus bills and budgeting by supplemental , congress is surrendering its constitutional duties .  the results of this practice are ballooning deficits -- the cbo confirmed that the 2004 deficit is the largest in history , $ 413 billion -- a lack of follow-through to determine how appropriated funds are being spent .  without proper oversight as a backstop , problems in the executive branch can spin out of control .  members are learning about problems for the first time through the newspapers , not as a result of tough oversight hearings .  this kind of lax or nonexistent oversight contributes to situations like we saw in abu ghraib prison .  now we have learned about secret , permanent detention facilities in the united states where possible terrorists are held indefinitely , without any legal status .  mr. speaker , we need to take a hard look at our priorities and get back to doing the business of the house .  we should be moving forward with a tough , focused oversight agenda , and a schedule that devotes more time to priority , must-pass legislation and less time to suspension bills .  instead , it appears that we are adopting a rules package today that will bring us more of the same .  mr. speaker , i strongly oppose the changes in the house ethics rules that the republican majority is seeking to adopt today .  the proposed republican rule changes would cripple the ethics process in the house and dramatically lower the bar for standards of official conduct .  late yesterday , the republican majority in the house released the details of its rules package for the 109th congress .  some of the newspapers reported this morning that the majority had abandoned its efforts to loosen rules governing members ' ethical conduct , but this is not the case .  while the majority backed away from some of its rule changes , the most egregious ethics change remains .  this provision would make it much more difficult for the committee on standards of official conduct to investigate allegations of wrongdoing by members of the house .  under current rules , if the ethics committee deadlocks on whether or not to pursue an ethics complaint against a member of the house , the matter automatically goes to an investigative subcommittee .  under the proposed change , a complaint against a member would be tabled unless a majority votes to take action on it within 45 days .  since the committee is evenly split with five republicans and five democrats , either political party could simply block an ethics complaint by stonewalling and running out the clock .  there is no doubt that if the proposed rule change had been in effect during the last congress , no action would have been taken against the members of the house who were reprimanded as a result of the ethics committee 's investigation of bribery allegations raised in connection with the vote on the medicare prescription drug act of 2003 .  the committee would have deadlocked and the entire matter swept under the rug 45 days after the complaint was made .  i was listening to the debate on this earlier .  the chairman of the ethics committee said that he does not favor this change .  he said he would like it removed .  why then is the majority leadership pursuing this change , when it is opposed by the ranking republican on the ethics committee ?  at a time when public confidence in congress is so low and the nation faces so many challenges , it is inexplicable that the first order of business in the new session is to water down the ethics rules in the house and make it even more difficult to discipline lawmakers who abuse their office .  this should not be a partisan matter .  the proposed rule change harms the integrity and credibility of the house as an institution , and that reflects badly on all of us , republicans and democrats alike .  i urge all my colleagues to join me in opposing this assault on ethics enforcement in the house .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the proposed changes in the ethics rules .  i served for 8 years on the committee on standards of official conduct , and it is not an enviable assignment .  but members who have never served on the committee would be proud of how these tasks are approached .  it is a committee that is evenly split .  in the 8 years i served , we had unanimous votes .  the members who serve think about the institution .  they are there to serve the american people and the institution .  it has not been a partisan body .  it has been one that holds other members to a high ethical standard .  these rules will undermine the committee on standards of official conduct , and the process of using the committee on rules rather than the committee on standards of official conduct to deliberate on the changes is also undercutting the committee on standards of official conduct .  i recommend that we do not support these rule changes .  and i also want to mention on the homeland security provision of the rule , it is a huge mistake to `` murky up '' the jurisdiction over cybersecurity .  we are at tremendous risk for a cyberattack , and the changes in that area will make us less safe .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the first day of a new congress should be a day for hope .  it should be a day when all of us look forward with optimism to the work ahead .  but today is not that kind of day .  instead , the leadership of this house is beginning the new year in the worst possible way , by gutting the ethical standards of the united states house of representatives .  talk about starting off on the wrong foot .  in the rules package before us today , the republican leadership is sending a very clear message .  they are admitting that they are so ethically challenged that they can not conform to the rules they previously adopted , so they must now relax those rules .  what an awful example to the nation and to the rest of the world .  we should be strengthening the ethical standards of this house , not weakening them .  mr. speaker , the republican party regained a majority of seats in this body in 1994 , in part by promising greater accountability and a more honest system in the nation 's capital .  their actions have been anything but honest ; and now with this rules package , their rush to the bottom continues .  today is just one more example of the ethical lapses we have seen in this house , a house where major legislation is now written by industry lobbyists , a house where members are not even given the courtesy of being able to read bills before they are voted on , and a house where bad behavior is not reprimanded , but rewarded .  as members of congress , we should be held to the highest possible ethical standards .  that means not breaking the law .  that means not dancing around the law , and that means conducting ourselves in a manner that reflects credibility on the house at all times .  facing the possible indictment of a member of their leadership , the republicans attempted in secret to change the rules to protect their ethically challenged colleagues .  however , in the face of mounting public controversy , the public leadership caved last night and rescinded the change .  they blinked and they buckled .  but the speaker 's spokesman commented on this flip-flop saying that the issue had become a `` distraction. '' not wrong , mind you , but just distracting .  i am getting whiplash just watching all this stuff .  but , mr. speaker , let us be clear that the republican leadership did not find religion in this issue .  if they believed that what they were about to do was truly wrong , they would not have proposed these rule changes in the first place .  but while republicans try to pull a fast one claiming that the majority leader fell on his sword for the good of his party , the truth is that the rules package for the 109th congress still in a very meaningful way fundamentally weakens the ethics system here in the house of representatives .  i strongly urge the american people and members of the press and my colleagues to closely examine these rule changes , especially those made to the ethics standards .  under the old rules , a properly filed ethics complaint is automatically investigated if that complaint is not acted upon within 45 days .  remember , as the gentlewoman from new york stated , that the ethics committee is evenly divided between democrats and republicans ; and to ensure that partisan politics did not prevail in the ethics process , a tie vote ensures a formal investigation .  but under this proposed rules package , there must be a majority vote to investigate a properly filed ethics complaint ; and if that complaint is not acted upon with within 45 days , that ethics complaint dies .  in other words , mr. speaker , the chairman of the committee , whoever that may be , could stonewall the process , refuse to call for a vote , and ultimately kill any ethics complaint without any action .  but this also allows any member potentially under investigation to run the clock out by stonewalling investigators until the 45 days are up .  the american people deserve better than this from their elected representatives .  we serve at the pleasure of our constituents , and we have a responsibility to uphold the highest ethical standards .  over the past decade , the republican leadership has careened down the pathway of irresponsibility , and now we are at a crossroads .  there are those of us who truly believe members of congress should be held to a higher standard and who will make a stand and fight for real accountability from our colleagues , and there will be those who blindly follow their leadership , who vote to weaken the rules of this institution , first written by thomas jefferson , because they fear the retribution of their leaders .  this should be a place where honesty and integrity are the standard , not a place where the rules are changed merely to protect a powerful few from their own ethical shortcomings .  mr. speaker , we can stop this debacle .  let us start over .  let us make this right .  let us make the house of representatives an example of high standards and ethical decency .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on this rules package .  mr. speaker , i am transmitting a status report on the current levels of on-budget spending and revenues for fiscal year 2005 and for the 5-year period of fiscal years 2005 through 2009 .  this report is necessary to facilitate the application of sections 302 and 311 of the congressional budget act and section 401 of the conference report on the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2005 ( s. con .  res. 95 , which is currently in effect as a concurrent resolution on the budget in the house under h. res. 5 ) .  this status report is current through january 21 , 2005 .  the term `` current level '' refers to the amounts of spending and revenues estimated for each fiscal year based on laws enacted or awaiting the president 's signature .  the first table in the report compares the current levels of total budget authority , outlays , and revenues with the aggregate levels set forth by s. con .  res. 95 .  this comparison is needed to enforce section 311 ( a ) of the budget act , which creates a point of order against measures that would breach the budget resolution 's aggregate levels .  the table does not show budget authority and outlays for years after fiscal year 2005 because appropriations for those years have not yet been considered .  the second table compares the current levels of budget authority and outlays for discretionary action by each authorizing committee with the `` section 302 ( a ) '' allocations made under s. con .  res. 95 for fiscal year 2005 and fiscal years 2005 through 2009 .  `` discretionary action '' refers to legislation enacted after the adoption of the budget resolution .  this comparison is needed to enforce section 302 ( f ) of the budget act , which creates a point of order against measures that would breach the section 302 ( a ) discretionary action allocation of new budget authority for the committee that reported the measure .  it is also needed to implement section 311 ( b ) , which exempts committees that comply with their allocations from the point of order under section 311 ( a ) .  the third table compares the current levels of discretionary appropriations for fiscal year 2005 with the `` section 302 ( b ) '' suballocations of discretionary budget authority and outlays among appropriations subcommittees .  the comparison is also needed to enforce section 302 ( f ) of the budget act because the point of order under that section equally applies to measures that would breach the applicable section 302 ( b ) suballocation .  the fourth table gives the current level for 2006 of accounts for advance appropriations under section 401 s. con .  res. 95 .  this list is needed to enforce section 401 of the budget resolution , which creates a point of order against appropriation bills that contain advance appropriations that are : ( i ) not identified in the statement of managers or ( ii ) would cause the aggregate amount of such appropriations to exceed the level specified in the resolution .  enactment of measures providing new budget authority for fiscal year 2005 in excess of $ 46 , 377 , 000 , 000 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause fiscal year 2005 budget authority to exceed the appropriate level set by s. con .  res. 95 enactment of measures providing new outlays for fiscal year 2005 in excess of $ 21 , 374 , 000 , 000 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause fiscal year 2005 outlays to exceed the appropriate level set by s. con .  res. 95 .  enactment of measures that would reduce revenue for fiscal year 2005 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause revenues to fall further below the appropriate level set by s. con .  res. 95 .  enactment of measures resulting in revenue reduction for the period of fiscal years 2005 through 2009 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause revenues to fall further below the appropriate levels set by s. con .  res. 95 .  appropriate level & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 23 , 158 current level : interior subcommittee : elk hills 36 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; labor , health and human services , education subcommittee : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; employment and training administration & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 2 , 463 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; education for the disadvantaged & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 7 , 383 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; school improvement & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 1 , 435 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; children and family services ( head start ) & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 1 , 400 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; special education & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 5 , 413 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; vocational and adult education & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 791 transportation and treasury subcommittee : payment to postal service 62 veterans , housing and urban development subcommittee : section 8 renewals 4 , 200 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; total & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 23 , 183 current level over ( + ) / under ( - ) appropriate level 25 & lt ; p & gt ; u.s. congress , congressional budget office , washington , dc , january 24 , 2005 .  dear mr .  chairman : the enclosed report shows the effects of congressional action on the fiscal year 2005 budget and is current through january 21 , 2004 .  this report is submitted under section 308 ( b ) and in aid of section 311 of the congressional budget act , as amended .  the estimates of budget authority , outlays , and revenues are consistent with the technical and economic assumptions of s. con .  res. 95 , the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2005 .  the budget resolution figures incorporate revisions submitted by the committee on the budget to the house to reflect funding for wildland fire suppression and for technical reasons .  these revisions are authorized by sections 312 and 313 of s. con .  res. 95 .  in addition , under section 402 of s. con .  res. 95 , amounts designated as emergency requirements are exempt from enforcement of the budget resolution .  as a result , the enclosed current level report excludes these amounts ( see footnote 2 of the report ) .  since my last letter , dated november 17 , the congress has cleared and the president has signed the following acts that changed budget authority , outlays , or revenues for fiscal year 2005 : the second continuing resolution , 2005 ( public law 108-416 ) ; the miscellaneous trade and technical corrections act ( public law 108-429 ) ; the third continuing resolution , 2005 ( public law 108-434 ) ; the consolidated appropriations act , 2005 ( public law 108-447 ) ; an act to amend title xix of the social security act ( public law 108-448 ) ; the arizona water settlements act ( public law 108-451 ) ; the veterans ' benefits improvement act of 2004 ( public law 108-454 ) ; the thrift savings plan open elections act of 2004 ( public law 108-469 ) ; an act to authorize salary adjustments for justices and judges of the united states ( public law 108-491 ) ; an act to amend to internal revenue code of 1986 ( public law 108-493 ) ; an act to amend the national telecommunications and information administration organization act ( public law 108-494 ) ; the federal employee dental and visions benefits act of 2004 ( public law 108-496 ) ; and an act to accelerate the income tax benefits for charitable cash contributions for the relief of victims of the indian ocean tsunami ( public law 109-1 ) .  the effects of the actions listed above are detailed in the accompanying report .  sincerely , douglas holtz-eakin , enclosure .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h. res. 5 , to the republican rules package .  specifically , i oppose the proposed changes to rule x , which among other things creates a permanent standing committee on homeland security and grants legislative jurisdiction to that committee .  i am not opposed to the creation of a permanent homeland security committee .  indeed , i believe that the homeland security committee should be made permanent and should be granted jurisdiction over the overall homeland security policy of the federal government .  further , i believe that a homeland security committee is needed to oversee the internal administration of such a large federal agency as the department of homeland security , dhs , which has over 180 , 000 employees .  although h. res. 5 includes these provisions , i oppose its grant of legislative jurisdiction to the new committee of areas that have previously been the jurisdiction of other committees .  i oppose this grant of jurisdiction , not because of some desire to protect existing committees ' `` turf '' , but because transfer of these security issues to a new committee divests from the responsibility for those issues from those members who have substantial experience and expertise -- in some cases developed through decades of work -- on them .  the existing committees are best equipped to give the full house the benefit of carefully thought out recommendations that provide effective security without unnecessary risks to safety or economic efficiency .  it will take years for a new committee to be able to develop the expertise to provide the house and the nation with reports and recommendations of the quality that existing committees provide .  it is not enough to say that members with particular areas of expertise will have an opportunity to be heard on these issues .  the most effective way to influence policy is to be part of the debate and discussion in the early stages of policy formation ; simply voting yes or no when legislation makes it to the house floor is generally not sufficient participation to craft policy .  i take this position on the basis of my 30 years of experience in the house , during which time i have given high priority to security , particularly the security of our transportation system .  h. res. 5 would divest responsibility for dhs ' transportation and port security functions from the transportation and infrastructure committee , t & amp ; i committee , and transfer it to the homeland security committee .  however , transportation and port security can not be considered in a vacuum .  developing sound security legislation requires balancing security risks against the economic and safety impacts of such measures on transportation industries and their customers .  for example , we would not want to install technology on aircraft to protect against missile attacks if that technology would create disproportionate safety risks .  in addition , security mandates are only one type of requirement imposed on transportation industries .  other requirements include safety , consumer protection , environmental , accessibility , and competitiveness statutory or regulatory mandates .  any security legislation or regulation must be considered in the context of the costs and benefits of all such requirements governing transportation industries .  the committee on transportation and infrastructure has the responsibility and the expertise to broadly consider security risks , weigh all costs and benefits of proposed requirements , and determine the likely effects of such actions on transportation industries , their customers , and the existing framework of other statutory and regulatory requirements .  the t & amp ; i committee , time and again , has proven it 's capable to ensure that the u.s. transportation system is efficient and safe , as well as secure .  in the aftermath of the pan am flight 103 tragedy , the t & amp ; i committee developed the landmark aviation security improvement act of 1990 ( p.l .  101-604 ) , which mandated background checks for airline and airport employees and the deployment of bomb detection equipment for baggage at our nation 's airports .  during the 1990s , our committee continued to respond to the changing security needs through oversight and legislation .  in the aftermath of the september 11 attacks , the t & amp ; i committee developed and considered the aviation and transportation security act of 2001 , atsa .  atsa established a new transportation security administration , tsa , federalized the screening workforce , and required the screening of all checked baggage to protect against terrorist threats .  the aviation subcommittee alone has held 19 hearings on aviation security issues since september 11 .  since september 11 , the t & amp ; i committee has also spearheaded important maritime and port security legislation including the maritime transportation security act of 2002 , and the coast guard and maritime transportation act of 2004 .  the t & amp ; i committee has the member expertise , the staff , and the institutional memory to deal with these issues .  i believe that the quality of congressional oversight and legislation on these issues will suffer if these issues are simply transferred wholesale to a new committee .  it will take years for the new committee to develop the institutional background and expertise that currently resides in our committee .  finally , the republican conference drafted these changes to rule x in isolation .  democrats were afforded no role in crafting this critical security policy .  i believe the proposed changes to rule x do not further the security of this nation .  instead , i fear that they will hamper security by divesting from those members with the experience and institutional knowledge of these issues the direct responsibility to craft security policy .  for all of these reasons , i oppose h. res. 5 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to what i consider a shameless rules package which will undermine the ethical standards held by this house .  after the elections in november , the first thing the republican majority did was to lower the house 's ethical standard .  in an act of unprecedented shamelessness , they changed the rule of their party to permit an indicted member of their party to remain in a leadership position .  yesterday , in the face of an overwhelming bipartisan and public condemnation they changed their rules back .  this is not shocking .  what is shocking is that they ever considered it in the first place .  even more shocking , just if you think you have seen it all , is that the majority considered deleting the most fundamental of ethics rules which says that members of the house should be held to the highest standards of ethical conduct .  it says a member shall conduct himself at all times in a manner that should reflect creditably on the house of representatives .  dropping this rule is unthinkable .  yet republicans only decided to keep it last night when the issue became too hot for them to handle .  thank heavens it became too hot for them to handle , but what is completely apparent to the public and those who follow the congress is that the republicans did not leave it at that .  they went on to make new mistakes , to undermine the ethical standard of the house .  instead of a bipartisan effort to strengthen the ethical process , the republicans have engaged in a completely partisan exercise that should be an affront to every member on either side of the aisle who has served in this body .  the proposed changes which are still in this rules package are destructive , and they are unethical .  mr. speaker , i know of what i speak .  i served on the committee on standards of official conduct for 6 years , and then for a seventh year i served as a part of the bipartisan committee to rewrite the ethics rules .  it is bipartisan , evenly divided , and we came up with new ethics rules , some of which survived the floor that year in 1997 .  the package that was put together was meant to be fair to members as well as uphold the high ethical standards .  it says that members should be judged by their actions and by the rules of the house and the law .  so it was only about what took place , the facts and the law .  it was not about rumor .  it was not about hearsay .  it was about the facts , the rules of the house and the law .  there was a process which was fair to members because , as i say , as someone who has 7 years on the ethical process , that it is very hard to make judgments about our peers .  it is a very , very difficult task , and we want to be fair , but we have a higher responsibility to uphold that ethical standard .  so it was put forth and has been the rules of the house and the committee on standards of official conduct that in order to cease or dismiss a case , we had to have a majority of the committee on standards of official conduct .  that would be eliminated today .  that would be eliminated today .  so , on a partisan basis , there could be no cases that go forward .  either party with half the votes in the committee , evenly split , could cease and desist any complaints from going forward .  that is simply not right .  the point of the committee on standards of official conduct is to have a process in which to deal with ethics complaints against members .  the point of the committee on standards of official conduct is not to whitewash or to have a system that says nothing will ever move forward .  what could the republicans be afraid of that they would so fundamentally undermine the ethical process of the house to say we are going to establish a system where nothing will ever go forward ?  this simply is wrong .  we owe it to the public , we owe it to each other to uphold that ethical standard .  so , as i say , on the first day of this new congress , the republican majority is publicly demonstrating what has been evident for some time , and that is its arrogance , its pettiness , its shortsighted focus on their political life rather than to decide how we are each of us fit to govern .  here is the thing .  we have this rules package before us .  they did some flash last night so that the press is saying , oh , they blinked .  they did blink on a couple of different scores , but the fundamental challenge to the ethical standard of the house being enforced is still in this rules package , and it should be rejected .  democrats have made two proposals .  one of them is to remove this change , and that would be a vote on the previous question , and then on the motion to recommit we address two other abuses of power that should be addressed in this bill .  one is what i will call the tauzin rule , and the democratic motion to commit would forbid a member of congress to negotiate with an outside entity that has business before his or her committee and before the congress , in the current congress or in a previous congress , called the tauzin rule because mr. tauzin , who managed the medicare bill , was at the time being courted by the pharmaceutical industry which was to benefit from provisions in the prescription drug bill , a rumored $ 2 million a year salary for selling america 's seniors down the river .  that is simply wrong .  has this become an auction house ?  the public has to think and believe that when we are here and we are on the public payroll and we are members of congress that our accountability is to them and not to our next job .  i call that the revolving door , shorthand for the tauzin rule , and the impact of that is a very , very bad prescription drug bill that put pharmaceutical companies first , seniors last .  in our motion to commit we also address the 3-day rule .  as many of my colleagues recall in recent memory , there was occasion on the floor when a huge bill of many thousands of pages , containing nine appropriations bills , seven of which never appeared on the floor of the united states senate , came before this house where the matter was overnight passed in the committee on rules , came to the floor the next morning without any chance of members being able to read the bill .  it came under the martial law rule the republicans use by which they say we waive the 3-day rule by a simple majority .  it should take two-thirds , but by a simple majority we waive the 3-day rule .  well , why was it important ?  it was important that day because there was a great deal in that bill that members did not know about that they were voting on and should not they know that , but very specifically in that bill and it was not found out until the because of the egregiousness of that and the violation of privacy of the american people , i insisted that the members come back to vote on that rather than just have it be done by unanimous consent to remove that provision from the law .  why did i call members back ?  so that the american people will know because of the abuse of power in this house , ignoring of the 3-day rule , that members can not even see what they are voting on before they vote on it , and something like looking at your tax returns could be sneaked into the bill , without any safeguards to protect people from that .  that is just one example .  another example is the medicare prescription drug bill which came to the floor without proper time for review as well .  the list goes on and on .  in our motion to commit , we address the abuse of power of a powerful chairman , negotiating for a job while he was a member of congress , who had control of the bill over the industry , which was offering him $ 2 million a year .  that is how much it cost to sell the american seniors down the river , and i hope that even if you separate yourself from any of the examples and just say i sent you to congress to represent me , you do that in what you say there and how you vote , and i expect that you know what you are voting on .  the message to the american people here this afternoon is a vote for the motion to commit , is a vote for members to be able to read a bill before they vote on it .  is that asking too much ?  the republicans say it is .  so a yes vote on the motion to commit gives members the 3 days which under the rules of the house they are entitled to .  a vote for the motion to commit stops the unethical process of members negotiating with people outside , whose bills they are managing inside this congress , in this congress or in the previous congress .  the previous question vote would say no to the republicans in their evisceration of the ethical process of this house by saying that you do not need a majority to dismiss a case ; you can just do it if all the members of your party on the committee decide to stick with you on it .  it is simply not right , and this should not be partisan .  that is really what is really sad about it .  everything that we have done in the ethics process has had some level of respect to the extent that it has because it has been bipartisan , bipartisan in writing the rules , evenly divided committee , cooperation between the chair and ranking member .  today is a major departure from that , and i guess maybe i have just spent too many long hours for too many long years in the committee on standards of official conduct room trying to respect the rights of members and our higher responsibility to uphold an ethical standard .  to see the republicans today run roughshod , rigging the rules , negotiating for jobs , no reading of the bill , it is an outrage .  it is an absolute outrage .  so i urge my colleagues to vote yes on the previous question , yes on the motion to commit , and by all means , however you vote on those , no on this very shameful rules package .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , all over washington and in the country , people are talking today about the majority 's last-minute decision to abandon rules changes that would have eviscerated longstanding ethical guidelines in this house , and , with that , the integrity of the institution .  and while in the end the majority was right to withdraw these provisions , they hardly deserve our congratulations .  the republicans simply succumbed to tough criticism from every major ethics group in washington , several major news organizations and house democrats .  the rules changes in question were so egregious that rank-and-file republicans would not support their leadership 's plan .  the proposals were so offensive that the ethics committee chairman broke with his own leadership on the issue .  one of the changes would have permitted members , indicted by a grand jury on felony counts , to continue to hold house leadership positions .  the measure was similar to a conference rule the house republican conference passed last fall to protect its leadership in the event that one of them is indicted .  the fact that they ever considered changing the rules of the house in this disgraceful manner is a sad commentary on the ethical compass of this body 's leadership .  they also planned to eliminate a 30-year standing rule that members of congress could be disciplined for actions that brought dishonor and discredit on this house , the people 's house .  this standard is similar to the one that exists for the men and women serving in our military .  how could they even think about changing the house rules in this regard when to do so would mean demanding a higher ethical standard from an 18-year-old private in the army than we who sit in this hallowed chamber ?  how could we ask more from our young people than we ask of ourselves ?  it is hard to believe that there was a time in the not too distant past when the republicans touted their high ethical and moral standards .  mr. speaker , it seems to me that this entire episode has been a violation of the public trust .  when americans enter their voting booths and cast their ballots for congress , they give us a very precious gift , their trust .  american voters expect , and rightly so , that we as members of congress will conduct ourselves at the highest ethical standard and uphold democratic principles such as integrity and accountability .  how can we as the guardians of democracy spread the values of self-governance across the world if we refuse to govern ourselves right here in this chamber ?  mr. speaker , though we should all be relieved that the republicans were shamed into abandoning the most overtly egregious provisions , the remaining ethics provisions in today 's legislation will still destroy the house ethics process .  i can not say it more plainly than that .  the ethics process will be destroyed .  the tactics have changed , but the end result is the same .  the house ethics system will be gutted .  mr. speaker , the committee on standards of official conduct is the only evenly divided committee in the house .  as the rule stands today , if the five republicans and five democrats on the committee do not reach agreement about the merits of an ethics complaint , it is automatically referred to investigators .  this approach was designed to take the partisan politics out of the equation and to ensure that meritorious complaints would be investigated regardless of the political winds of the day .  under the republican rules package , one-half of the committee will now have the power to bury complaints , even the most meritorious ones .  under the rules package before us today , if the committee is deadlocked , the ethics complaint dies .  this one provision gives the republicans an enormous amount of control over who is and who is not investigated by the committee on standards of official conduct .  in practical terms , the republicans have granted themselves veto power over any complaint it does not deem palatable .  mr. speaker , this rules package would effectively eliminate the 45-day deadline the committee on standards of official conduct currently has to act on complaints .  the 45-day requirement was designed to prevent ethics complaints from being buried away from public view and to ensure that those members who should be held accountable for corruption would be .  this provision ensures that no ethics complaint will move forward against a republican without their leadership 's consent .  mr. speaker , we can be sure that if these rules changes had been in place in the last congress , no ethics complaints would have seen the light of day .  under the republicans , the ethical climate in washington has eroded enormously .  when i speak to constituents , i find myself telling them to forget what they learned in school about how a bill becomes a law .  in times past , our laws were written to serve the public interest .  but today the sad reality is that corporations like enron write our nation 's policies .  the medicare drug bill that was rammed through congress in the dead of night stands as a potent example of the ethical erosion of the house of representatives .  when the dust settled on the prescription drug vote , former representative billy tauzin , the key author and then chairman of the committee on energy and commerce , had himself the republican rules package will reduce this committee to a paper tiger .  the american people deserve much better than to have a `` for sale '' sign placed on the united states house of representatives .  they deserve to be able to trust their elected leaders and have faith in the integrity of this institution .  they should be able to expect accountability from their government .  unfortunately , the lesson we have here today is if you have the power and you break the rules , you can just change the rules .  mr. speaker , i know there are members on the other side of the aisle , because i know them , who care greatly about the integrity of this chamber , and i know that there are freshmen members here today eager to cast their first vote on behalf of the constituents whose trust they hold and the constitution they love .  i challenge those new members , and any other republican who values integrity and the sanctity of the democratic process , to stand up for the values of those who trusted you to represent them .  mr. speaker , at the close of this debate , i will be asking members to vote `` no '' on the previous question so i can strike from the rules package language that would allow the republicans to run out the clock on serious ethics complaints .  immediately following that vote , i will ask for a `` yes '' on a motion to commit the resolution so that we can add two important rules changes .  the first would prohibit members from negotiating lucrative job deals that capitalize on their committee membership .  the other would guarantee that members have at least 3 days to read a house report before voting on it .  when bills are rushed to the floor , cobbled together at the last minute , warm from the machine , pages are missing or , worse , outrageous provisions are slipped in by committee staff .  lest we forget , the provision that opened up private taxpayers ' records that was sneaked into last year 's omnibus spending bill was by just such a staff member .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote to strike the egregious ethics changes in this package .  we owe it to the constituents we serve , to this institution , and to the constitution that we adore and revere to restore the ethics and integrity to the people 's house .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , after the vote on the previous question , i will call for a yes vote on the motion to commit .  my motion to commit will prohibit sitting members of congress from negotiating for future employment with any person who has a direct interest in the legislation referred to any committee on which that member serves .  it also includes a rules change that would require a two-thirds vote in the house to waive the requirement in our standing rules that members must have 3 days to read the committee reports .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent to insert a statement as part of that immediately prior to the vote on the motion to commit .  mr. speaker , i urge a no vote on the previous question .  i call on all members of this house , particularly the freshmen casting their first vote , please vote for ethics today .  do not vote against the constitution .  vote for this house that you will love and revere as all of us do on both sides of the aisle .  please vote no on the previous question and vote yes on the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time .  1630 mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , during rollcall vote no .  3 on consideration of h. res. 5 , i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , my question to the gentleman concerns the change to the rules that would allow members to use campaign funds to purchase cell phones .  as you know , there is a law that prohibits a member of congress from using the resources of their office or their office to solicit campaign funds .  it is my hope that allowing campaign cell phones to be used in a congressional office is not in any way a back-door attempt to allow a member to use a campaign cell phone from their congressional office or any federal facility to raise funds to get around this prohibition that currently exists in law .  just for a clarification , the use of a campaign cell phone in this building ?  to solicit campaign funds with a campaign cell phone .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  5 i was inadvertently detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  12 i was in the chamber seeking recognition but the vote was closed .  had i been able to vote , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , i do not mean to reiterate or repeat too much .  looking at the history of these congressional gold medals , though , i think is very telling in terms of what we are doing because the history has always been to individuals for outstanding achievement .  so in terms of the groups , i really think we should honor that .  that is not disrespectful of any group that has gotten it or all the other groups who are potentially eligible out there if you use them in that criteria of measurement .  but the other issue is interesting , and that is how many of these should we be able to have ?  first of all , the history of the gold medal has been very bipartisan .  i think , as we all know , when we are dealing with that many signatures , it is going to be bipartisan .  there is no question about that .  but my sense is that the two a year is not as limiting as one might think when you really again look at the history of this .  in fact , if anything , it would be an expansion over what the total history of it has been .  by the time you go through a legislative session and you gather 290 signatures and you go through committee and you go to the floor , and i have handled these bills , they often happen the last day , by the way , so it is always very confusing in terms of what we are doing , i think you are going to find this is not as limiting as one might think .  again , i recognize the fact that it is a bigger country , that there is much more going on in the country and that kind of thing , but we are really trying to make sure that this is truly an honor for somebody who does something extraordinary in science or the arts , or an elected official or somebody of that nature , usually a president , i think the only elected official who has ever been honored ; people in religion , people who have just absolutely stood out in their circumstances .  my sense is while we can argue here on the floor that it is limiting , i think the bottom line is it is not going to end up being as limiting as one might think .  hopefully it would not be .  obviously if that happened to be the case , it is something that could always be revisited , but i just do not think it is going to be the case .  i believe that straightening this out is actually going to make these gold medals much more of a distinction than perhaps they would be if we allowed this to continue , particularly with the commemorative coin changes , increasing the pressure to try to do so many of these .  mr. chairman , i made a couple of these points before , and again i will not repeat too much here , but first and foremost is the 290 signatures .  i do not know if one party is ever going to have 290 members or not , i sort of doubt it , at least in the time most of us are around here , and you need both parties in order do this .  i learned with the coin that i did , which was benjamin franklin .  i can not tell you , and hardly anyone can tell you , whether benjamin franklin was or would have been a republican or a democrat in his history .  we do not know the politics of people like george washington , and certainly the people who have been from other countries , a number of individuals who received medals here in the congress of the united states .  in the history of the gold medals , as i believe the gentleman from new york ( mr. crowley )  pointed out , it has been as much democrats , even more so than republicans .  even on the business of the commemorative coins , a number of the sponsors in the senate have been democrats as well .  i just have never noticed a lot of politics in this , i guess is my point .  it seems to me i have been asked to sign these , and i generally sign them , unless it is something i think is spurious , by democrats and republicans .  i do not think about it .  certainly , if a party feels it is being slighted , they can say we are just not going to sign on to something .  i do not think this needs a political balance .  what it really needs , i think , is to find out , if we are going to do two , who the two most distinguished individuals are who should be recognized and go ahead and recognize them , apart from whatever the politics may be .  i do not think it is going to fall down along political lines .  so i do rise in opposition to this .  i just think it is sort of a necessary strain on having a political balance on something which is not essential .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in listening to the sponsor in terms of the need for this legislation , one could intimate by the introduction that possibly medals were given out in a haphazard manner .  i mentioned before it takes two-thirds of the members of the house , the entire body , to introduce a gold medal for its consideration in the committee on financial services , a bar that i believe is a very , very high bar and one that is not easily attained .  i would also point out that limiting this to individuals , and again to reiterate , martin luther king and coretta scott king were both issued the gold medal .  they would not have gotten that medal under this legislation .  harry and eliza briggs , levi pearson , and reverend joseph armstrong delaine were all issued the medal in one provision .  as mentioned before , nancy reagan , along with president reagan , would not have been eligible .  under the provisions today , they would have to get it individually .  betty and gerald ford , the little rock nine , and dr .  graham and ruth graham would not have received it either .  i think therein lies a tremendous flaw .  it also intimates that there may be too many of these gold medals given out .  who that received this medal in the past was not worthy of it ?  was it dr .  martin luther king and coretta scott king ; was it reverend delaine , harry and eliza briggs , and levi pearson ; was it jackie robinson ; was it dorothy height ; tony blair in the last congress ?  in the 106th congress was it nancy reagan ; was it pope john paul , ii ; was it charles schulz , the great cartoonist ?  was it rosa parks ?  who amongst those was not qualified , who do we believe was not deserving of this medal .  therein lies the flaw in this bill .  it actually limits us from giving to those who i believe are most deserving of recognition of this gold medal .  mr. chairman , would it be safe to say under regular order if this legislation were passed that the code talkers , under regular order , and that was an extraordinary provision made in the appropriations process , under regular order would they be eligible to receive this medal in the future if this bill were to pass ?  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will continue to yield , that is the point i am trying to make .  to say that the code talkers , and i am not saying the gentleman is suggesting this , but to suggest that they did not deserve the ultimate award , even as a group , for what they provided to the service of this country during world war ii is just ridiculous .  they certainly deserved as a group .  any one individual , no .  there were multiple individuals who provided an incredible service to us .  i would also point out that two is not individual .  two individuals makes up a group , to my understanding , and that would include nancy and ronald reagan .  that would include any husband and wife , including dr .  king and coretta scott king .  that would preclude them from getting this medal in the future .  that is my understanding of the legislation before us .  mr. chairman , i want to recognize the significance of this medal , that it is not given out willy-nilly ; that , as i mentioned before , it takes extraordinary measures to get enough support to get this medal passed .  i recognize that the first person who received this medal was general george washington , prior to him becoming president of the united states , when the country was brand new , when we did not have the richness of diversity and of events that have taken place throughout the history of our country ever since this first medal was given to george washington ; that we have grown as a nation , in size and in stature ; and that there have been many events that have occurred throughout our history since the striking of the first medal that have inured greatly to the advancement of our country that from time to time need to be recognized .  that is what this medal gives an opportunity to do , both to individuals and to groups .  certainly general washington was an incredible individual , someone who was deserving of the first medal that was ever produced , and i think he accepted that on behalf of all those men and women who fought for independence from great britain back during the war of independence .  but certainly we have grown in size , both in states , from thirteen colonies and states to 50 states , and the number of people in this country have grown incredibly since the founding of this nation , and the events that have occurred throughout our history has certainly changed the shape of the distribution of this medal as well .  i think that needs to be recognized and taken into consideration .  if the gentleman will yield further , let me just make a point .  i appreciate what the gentleman from delaware has said .  the reality is , though , a country of 300 million people , only 20 medals have been awarded in the past decade .  that is not an awful lot of medals .  the point that the gentleman is making is that it has been extraordinary when we have actually issued this medal to groups .  why are we now limiting ourselves ; when it is extraordinary , recognized as extraordinary , why are we now officially and legally limiting the ability of congress to issue this medal to groups ?  i do not understand that .  we understand the process is hard .  the gentleman has just said himself to get two-thirds of the members of this house truly requires bipartisanship to get this done .  this is not done , as i mentioned before , in a willy-nilly manner .  there is great effort involved .  i understand it .  i remember when my friend from new york ( mr. fossella )  was doing this for john cardinal o'connor and the effort that it took to get both sides to get enough members to sign onto that .  i do understand the difficulties in that , but i hope the gentleman understands the appreciation that has been set forth by my testimony here today as well as my good friend from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  that sometimes , not ofttimes , it is not just individuals , but it is groups who are responsible for incredible , incredible events in this country and i believe are deserving of the congressional gold medal .  i hope that the gentleman would agree with that and we will have a motion to recommit that will , if passed , put this back to committee and will strike that language limiting it only to individuals .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman 's comments .  i know that the gentleman does not approach this in any other fashion but a bipartisan fashion .  but the question i have is if we are going to limit this to two per year , it could be that five members on our side of the aisle have five individuals they want to recognize .  there could be five individuals on the republican side of the aisle who have five individuals they want to recognize .  that is 10 people , 10 bills , 10 instances where members have garnered two-thirds .  who then will decide who gets the medals ?  it then becomes a very political decision as to who gets each of the medals .  will it be the five on the majority side ?  will it be two from the majority side ?  will it be two from the minority side ?  will it be one each ?  who of the 10 deserving will get it , and who will not get it ?  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , the rules will have changed once we pass this bill , whereas right now it is unlimited .  granted , where it is unlimited , there has not been this rush to introduce bills .  as the gentleman mentioned before , this is not done in a very quick fashion .  this is done in a bipartisan way .  but when we limit it to two per year , we are putting a cap on it , i think we can in the future find ourselves in a situation where , all right maybe five on each side is a little much , maybe two on each side .  then which of the four ?  who makes that decision as to which of the four gets the medal ?  and therein lies the politics .  unfortunately , i think you are creating more politics in this bill .  i do not think that is your intent .  i think you are doing this because you want to enrich the value of the gold medal .  i understand that .  but i think inherently by the changes being proposed , you are bringing more politics into the decisionmaking as to who obtains this medal .  that is what i am trying to in a sense , avoid by evenly dividing between democrat and republican , majority , minority , the ability for both sides to equally participate in this process .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  unfortunately , i think that in the past there may have been some politics involved .  i understand that one of my colleagues on this side had achieved the requisite number of signatures for a commemorative gold medal for the columbia 107 in the last congress , in the middle of the last congress , and that was never awarded .  so i do not know why .  i do not know if there was any reason for that , when the requisite number of signatures were given , that that bill was not taken up in the committee and that member was not successful in getting that award to the columbia 107 .  why that was not done , i do not know .  i do not know if politics was part of that .  maybe someone can answer that question .  but therein lies the problem , that from time to time , quite possibly there is politics involved as to why some individuals receive the gold medals and others do not .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  yes , i am opposed to the bill in its current form .  mr. speaker , today we begin the 109th congress in earnest , and we do so by considering a bill that we do not need to act on for a problem that , in our view and in the view of many of my colleagues , simply does not exist .  we considered this bill today not in the spirit of openness and bipartisanship that should categorize the democratic debate in the house , but with a restrictive rule that did not allow us to have a debate on a key issue : whether one of the highest honors that can be bestowed upon citizens of our country for their extraordinary deeds , a congressional gold medal , can be awarded to one individual or more for their collective honorable or heroic actions .  mr. speaker , if this bill passes in its current form , not only would it limit medals to two per year , but it would prevent the house of representatives and the senate from awarding medals in the future to any group of individuals for their collective heroic deeds , such as those of the hundreds of first responders that perished in the 9/11 terrorist attacks .  i am puzzled why we would act to impose such limits on our own ability to recognize the accomplishments of the citizens that we are elected to represent .  and i am even more puzzled that we would fix a process that is not broken , that is bipartisan in nature , and that works remarkably well for all members .  the bipartisan process we have in place has allowed us to honor the reverend martin luther king and coretta scott king ; nancy and ronald reagan ; betty and gerald ford ; pope john paul ii ; the little rock nine ; the leaders of brown v. the board of education ; jackie robinson ; civil rights leader dorothy height ; the navajo code talkers ; general henry shelton ; charles schulz ; john cardinal o'connor , archbishop of new york ; father theodore hesburgh ; rosa parks ; nelson mandela ; mother teresa ; frank sinatra ; ruth and billy graham ; ecumenical patriarch bartholomew ; british prime minister tony blair ; and others .  but under this bill , mr. speaker , we may not be able to honor nancy and ronald reagan jointly , nor betty and gerald ford jointly , nor martin luther king and coretta scott king jointly , nor the little rock nine , nor the navajo code talkers .  and under this bill my colleague , the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  , will be prevented from honoring the fallen astronauts from the space shuttle columbia .  in the 108th congress the gentlewoman from texas worked hard to gain the requisite two-thirds cosponsorship of the house for a bill that would honor these fallen american heroes posthumously with the congressional gold medal .  it is only right that the rule of the house be honored and that her hard-won efforts be not undone by this bill .  since the majority party gained control of this house in 1995 , 20 gold medals have been enacted into law either to an individual or a group of individuals .  using the process we currently have in place , 10 gold medal bills out of 20 were sponsored by republican members , and 10 were sponsored by democratic members .  how can anyone possibly argue that the existing process does not work ?  we are fixing something that simply is not broken .  unfortunately , the bipartisan spirit that has characterized the house 's consideration of gold medals in the past has not carried over to the debate on this bill .  not only did we do not have an open rule , but today represents the first time this house is debating this issue in any form .  the committee responsible for legislation on this bill , the committee on financial services , on which i serve , has not held a single hearing on this bill , let alone a markup .  the limited debate over this bill on the house floor may culminate in the passing of a bad bill , unless my colleagues join me in voting in favor of sending this bill back to committee , where we can have a meaningful debate , and where we can determine whether limiting gold medals is truly in the interest of the public and in the interest of the house .  mr. speaker , the house has become the 109th congress on a bad note : we are considering a bill with almost no meaningful debate , and it proposes to represent a solution to a problem that simply does not exist , a problem the record shows does not exist .  does this action foretell what lies ahead in terms of the existence of bipartisanship throughout this congress ?  i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the right thing , to vote in favor of my motion to recommit this bill back to the committee on financial services and to allow this house to take a closer look at this legislation to determine whether it really meets the interests of the american people .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  if the gentleman would yield , i appreciate my good friend 's good suggestion , and i am prepared to begin yielding time to colleagues who are present to begin speaking .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me close by first indicating to the gentleman from new york ( mr. crowley )  that the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  as well as myself acknowledge that the folks who received the medal in the past were most deserving .  i would point out , in fact , that the medal that was awarded , for example , to ronald and nancy reagan , was one medal , and the same thing with dr .  king and coretta scott king , and betty and gerald ford .  couples are treated much differently from a group .  i guess perhaps what i found in studying this , perhaps the most egregious example of going beyond what the initial scope of the medal was was in the 106th congress where we awarded five medal bills , one of them was for the navajo code talkers which did not go in regular order .  it was attached at the last minute to an appropriations bill .  it not only covered the 29 original code talkers but also an additional 275 of those who qualified as code talkers .  i guess , and i do not want to speak for the sponsor of the legislation , but i think it points out the need to tighten these requirements .  that is what the purpose of this legislation is all about .  if the bill were passed , the answer is no , they would not .  mr. chairman , let me point out in the case of the navajo code talkers , there were other tribes also that had code talkers , not just the navajo .  again , the issue is where do we start and where do we finish in this area .  again , going back to the history of the medal , and the first recipient was george washington , it was to an individual and was to an individual for a very , very long period of time .  the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  pointed out correctly , historically the gold medal was given out quite rarely , 45 in 123 years , to individuals .  the change ironically was brought about with the change in the commemorative coin program that did in fact move the congress to adopting more gold medals .  this is an effort to try to get back to where history started us , awarding that medal to an individual and awarding it not to a group , no matter how small or how large , and that really was the intent of the legislation .  reclaiming my time , and the gentleman may want to respond .  let me just comment .  there is an avenue , i would suggest to my friend from new york , to honor large groups .  that would be the commemorative coin .  it is somewhat ironic that after the reforms that were made by the gentleman from delaware where we tightened the restrictions on commemorative coins , and for good reason , that we then had this increase in the gold medal .  i think we can safely say that the gold medal traditionally supports the concept of honoring an individual for service to the country , and that the commemorative coin , which has been essentially put on the back burner , presents a very appropriate avenue for recognizing groups that heretofore have not been honored .  i think that the reforms in the past and the ones that the gentleman from delaware is now propounding in this bill makes excellent sense .  i think once the members understand the changes , that they are going to gravitate toward the concept of a commemorative coin as opposed to the gold medal .  that is precisely what the gentleman from delaware proposes in this legislation .  let me , in closing , mr. chairman , indicate , first of all , my respect for the members who have undertaken the responsibility of going out and getting 290 signatures .  virtually everyone i have talked to said , never again , because of the difficulty .  i said , well , think of it this way .  you get a chance to meet a lot of new friends .  every time you walk over or ride over for a vote , every time you see a member in the dining room , wherever it may be , you are getting their support .  but it is a difficult process .  i think the gentleman from delaware was right in raising that bar to where it is now , because it really does focus one 's attention on how difficult that process is .  it does make it , by definition , a bipartisan process .  that is a fact of life that we deal with time and time again .  the legislation before us , i think , does restore the medal to what it was envisioned to be way back in 1776 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  10 i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 42 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that section 2 of the resolution be stricken .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i appreciate the comments from the gentleman from florida , my good friend from the committee on rules , and would like to ask him at this time if he would like to consume the time .  at this time , i may have one additional speaker , but do not at this time and would wish that the gentleman would consume his time .  then i would expect to close .  i would like to ask the gentleman if he would like to do that .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  11 , crowley no .  3 , had i been present , i would have voted `` aye . '' mr. speaker , i rise in support of h. con .  res. 36 .  once again , activist judges threaten our authority , first of all , to direct federal fund spending ; and , second of all , they attempt to create law .  we have required here in congress at universities that receive federal dollars to extend access to military recruiters equal to other outside groups .  but in the name of free speech and association , some schools seek to deny their students access to recruiters and rotc , obviously afraid that their students would maybe even make a wrong choice .  it is ironic that an institution whose sole function , whole reason for being , is based on the free exchange of ideas , would then boycott the armed forces , the very people who actively protect their academic freedom .  it is further ironic that those who are often noted for concern that low-income americans are serving in disproportionate numbers in the armed forces would block many of their students born with a silver spoon access to rotc .  my own son currently serves in iraq .  he graduated near the top of his class from the u.s. naval academy ; and , last sunday , he had the satisfaction of witnessing the birth of freedom in a land where for 50 years freedom has been an exotic concept .  by passing h. con .  res. 36 , we reassert our support for freedom and our disdain for those liberal , elite institutions that seek to sensor choices for their wealthy clientele .  mr. speaker , let me thank my colleague for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , today i rise in strong support of this resolution , which shows our nation 's unwavering commitment to both higher education and providing a strong national defense .  at no time in recent memory has our country placed more responsibility on the shoulders of our men and women in uniform .  we are fighting a war on terrorism on multiple fronts , in afghanistan and iraq .  and it is essential that if we are to be victorious in defending our freedom and protecting our homeland that we promote military service as an option to college students across the united states .  when this congress passed and president bush signed into law the no child left behind act , the bill made it easier for military recruiters to inform america 's high school students about their options to serve their country , while also giving parents a choice about whether or not they want their sons and daughters to be contacted individually by military recruiters .  now in this resolution we are reiterating the choices given to institutions of higher education .  the solomon act , originally passed in 1995 , grants the secretary of defense power to deny federal funding to institutions of higher learning if they prohibit military recruitment on campus .  this law recognizes the importance of having a capable , educated and well-prepared military , one that is ready to defend american liberties such as freedom of speech and higher education .  if we deny armed forces recruiters the opportunity to actively recruit in schools , we not only disrespect the sacrifices of military men and women who have made our freedom possible ; we also rob our students of the valuable opportunities that military service can be to our nation and what they can help provide .  there is no reason not to allow the nation 's armed services to make their best case to college students and to do so in the same manner as private sector employers that colleges and universities seem to relish having on campus .  denial of access and equality to military recruiters by colleges that receive federal funds is an insult to the taxpayers who help subsidize higher education in this country .  many nations have mandatory military service for their citizens .  we do not .  the very core of our system of homeland security and national defense depends on young men and women deciding that they wish to serve our country .  successful recruitment of the best officers in our military relies heavily on our military recruiters ' access to the best and the brightest .  and it seems a bit disingenuous for the elite institutions of higher education , such as harvard , yale , stanford , georgetown , and new york university , to condemn the lack of the wealthy and privileged in the ranks of our military while these schools deny their students the option of even hearing about a career in our united states military .  this resolution should not be politicized .  it is a straightforward reaffirmation of our armed forces and our students .  congress does not force colleges and universities to accept federal funding .  if an institution of higher learning wishes to bar military recruiters from recruiting , it is free to do so .  but federal funding is not an entitlement and such institutions should not expect that decision to be endorsed and subsidized by the taxpayers of the united states .  the resolution reaffirms our commitment to that principle .  and i want to commend the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  and i also want to thank the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. kline )  for bringing this resolution to the floor and urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i rise in full support of this resolution and urge my colleagues to support its passage .  asking the administration to appeal the third circuit is the right thing to do .  what is happening on some college campuses is deja vu for those of us who attended colleges in the 1960s and the 1970s .  back then too many college administrators lacked the courage to resist pressure from then what were called left-wing student groups and other professors to ban military recruiters from their campuses .  as a result , students who sought military careers were denied equal access to careers of their choice and our schools became the centers for a wide range of nonsense courses .  the student protestors of the 1960s and 1970s and those of like mind are now the administrators and professors of colleges and universities all over the country .  clearly , they have neither changed their politics nor loathing for the american military .  even at a time when our servicemen and -women are encouraged to defeat the forces of tyranny and terror , they remain the same .  in denying military recruiters equal access to campuses such as harvard law school , college administrators violate the most basic principles of the right to associate and free speech they so profess is precious .  despite large numbers of conservative students attending their institutions , these liberals preach tolerance ; however , these liberal administrators and professors have now become the most intolerant people i know .  the following quote is from a student typical of the attitude of many of these ivory bastions : `` the day my political science department hires a republican and i am allowed to sit in a class without a number of snickers , jeers , and/or dirty looks when president bush 's name is even mentioned is the day i will admit there is progress on today 's campus. '' mr. speaker , congress did not ask for special access for military recruiters .  we are asking for just equal access to groups such as those seeking support for such liberal causes as abortion rights , frivolous lawsuits , same-sex marriage , elimination of the right to private property , gun control , orwellian big government .  mr. speaker , once again activist judges have clearly overstepped their authority , and it is time for the administration to stand and say that the u.s. court of appeals for the third circuit was wrong in their ruling and please seek an appeal .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 59 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , issues like this one -- first brought to our attention with a passion and eloquence only possible in a man like jerry solomon -- provide our democracy a valuable service : they cut through the fog of spin and force us to tell the american people exactly where we stand .  pure and simple , this bills says our armed services -- the army , navy , air force , marines , coast guard , and national guard -- should have the same right to recruit at colleges and universities who receive federal funding as any other group .  every year , thousands upon thousands of businesses , industries , non-profit groups , and even other colleges recruit underclassmen to sign up to become investment bankers and computer engineers or environmental lawyers or medical students .  and yet , some colleges -- principally the elitist and elite colleges -- refuse to even allow military recruiters on their campuses .  such policies are obnoxious in times of peace , but they are simply intolerable in times of war , and the equal access of our military recruiters to federally funded colleges and universities must be protected .  but that , mr. speaker , is the easy part .  the hard part is understanding why facilities and administrations of these colleges do n't want military recruiters on their campuses .  because , at bottom , their opposition to the presence of veterans at their schools is not about academic freedom , or civil liberties .  it 's about them not liking the military , or the values our men and women in uniform represent .  it 's about many of them preferring the company of people who blame the united states for 9/11 -- who compare the world trade center victims to nazis -- to the company of a soldier or a sailor or an airman or a marine .  it 's about academia feeling more sympathy for terrorists than for the women and children they murder .  it 's about a fundamental misconception about the purpose of a university -- the professors are there for the students , mr. speaker , and not the other way around .  that our military makes our academia possible , and not the other way around .  indeed , the right of tenured academics to be publicly insufferable exists only because of the sacrifices of our servicemen and women .  the least they could offer in return is a booth in the field house on career day .  of course , men and women who have dodged bullets and held dying comrades in their arms do n't take seriously people who live by the glib professional code `` publish or perish. '' but those elite campuses , who claim to educate our nation 's best and brightest , who claim to train our leaders of the future : how can we possibly not allow military recruiters to have the right to talk to such students ?  what profession , if any in our entire society , needs the opportunity to recruit the sharpest and broadest minds of every generation more than our armed forces ?  america 's armed services have molded great men from all walks of life , and when given brilliant men and women , they have produced legends .  how can we let such minds pass through our top colleges without even the chance that they might bump into a veteran recruiter who could change their life ?  america in the future no doubt will need its brilliant businessmen and lawyers and poets , but what good can such genius do without brilliant admirals and generals to protect them ?  mr. speaker , it 's a shame this issue was ever forced on us at all , but the vote on this bill will help to clarify exactly what we each mean when we say we support the troops .  we 'll finally see who among us really believes the military deserves more than just lip service from those of us they protect .  votes like this , after all , remind us of one of the great blessings of american democracy : that unlike college professors , congressmen do n't have tenure .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this resolution .  it may seem peculiar , but , frankly , i think that the military does not need this resolution .  it is not broken out there .  they are having the ability to recruit .  even despite the negative news from iraq , the recruitment numbers are up for all the services .  what this resolution does is sort of breaks this feeling in america that democracy allows divergence of opinion and that the people that own the real estate should have a voice in who can visit that real estate .  we do not have any nationally owned universities , yet this resolution requires equal access for all military recruiters at institutions of higher education .  i think we are getting into a really slippery area here because you are going to create within those campuses huge debates that students are going to say , we do n't like this stuff being jammed down our throats .  we and the faculty and the trustees of a university ought to be able to decide who can visit our campus , as they do in all other things .  for example , here in washington , d.c. , catholic university does not allow pro-abortionist recruiters to come and talk on the campus , and here you are going to require , regardless of what the issue should be , that military recruiters have to be allowed on campus .  i think it is a very slippery slope .  i do not think we need to go there , because the recruitment numbers are not down .  i think the military has historically stood on its own feet to do very well in recruiting without getting congress involved mandating that they have to be on campuses .  i think you are going to have a negative reaction .  i would urge congress very carefully to think about this and to vote `` no '' until we get a better thought on how we want to mandate democracy in this country .  mr. speaker , i come to the floor today in strong opposition to h. con .  res. 36 .  it is a standard practice for institutions of higher learning to include a non-discrimination policy as part of their mission .  these policies affirm that they do not tolerate discrimination on any number of issues : race , sex , religion , age , disability , social class , and sexual orientation .  these non-discrimination policies were created so that all people in our country have the opportunity to be an equal and respected member of higher education communities .  unfortunately the military has established a discriminatory policy , do n't ask do n't tell .  this policy unfairly excludes homosexuals from military service on the basis of their sexual orientation alone .  for example , numerous military linguists who are critically needed in the global war on terrorism have been discharged under do n't ask do n't tell .  supporters of h. con .  res. 36 say that denying military recruiters access to college campuses is a national security threat , but they are completely missing the big picture .  the real national security threat is the do n't ask do n't tell policy that forces our military to discharge gay servicemen and servicewomen regardless of their job performance .  i strongly believe that the non-discrimination policies of colleges and universities should be respected and i urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution .  mr. speaker , i am wondering , based on that argument , in the interest of efficiency , whether we might not substitute chat rooms for the floor of the house , and if being on the web site is a satisfactory way to bring a bill out .  maybe if we had chat rooms or instant messaging , we could probably save a lot more .  i would urge the majority , since this traditional kind of old-fashioned type of democracy does not seem to have much appeal , to go right ahead , might even save a little more money , by cutting back on what thomas jefferson or abe lincoln or one of those people might have thought was an appropriate way to conduct the business of democracy .  to begin , mr. speaker , it is absolutely backwards to decry this policy of excluding recruiters from using the facilities of a university .  let us be clear : no university can ban a recruiter from coming to that city or that town .  no university can say that students will not talk to the recruiter .  the question is not whether the recruiters can come and advertise ; it is whether they can compel the university to offer its facilities involving a policy with which they disagree .  but to say that that causes a problem in getting people in the military , it is the supporters of a policy that say to able-bodied men and women , we disapprove of your sexuality , and , therefore , no matter how talented you are , no matter how patriotic you are , no matter what skills you bring , you are not allowed here .  colin powell , when he was chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , testified before this congress that there was no argument that gay and lesbian men and women in the military were in any way deficient as members of the military .  he made it clear .  the only reason for excluding them was the prejudice of others .  that was the only reason .  the argument was : if you let these people in , and he said they had been good soldiers and good airmen and good sailors , it would be disruptive .  well , one , that was 15 years ago when he said that .  i think society has moved some .  but , second , we have experience to the contrary .  i know there have been people critical of the israeli defense forces in some respects .  i think they deserve , on the whole , a lot of credit for a difficult job .  in the israeli defense forces , people serve who are openly gay and lesbian .  so the argument that somehow allowing people who are honest about their sexuality , if they are gay or lesbian , to serve in the military makes you an ineffectual military , how do they explain the israeli defense forces ?  in fact , what we are again being told is that good people , able people , and we heard reference to the linguists .  this has become the policy of `` do n't ask , do n't tell , and by no means translate. '' you who support this policy are the ones , mr. speaker , who are depriving the armed services of able-bodied people .  you are the ones who have driven thousands , literally thousands of perfectly capable men and women out of the military because you disapprove of what they do in their spare time .  so then to claim that it is the universities trying to stand up for a principle that are weakening the military gets it absolutely backwards .  i was also saddened , i must say , by one of the previous speakers who said he wanted to express his disdain for the universities involved .  we have universities here which are trying to express their disagreement with what they believe , and i agree , but what they believe to be an unfair prejudice that singles out some of their students .  i understand disagreement with that , but disdain ?  disdain because people in these positions feel that their students should not be unduly stigmatized and denied this opportunity ?  if it is so important to have the opportunity , mr. speaker , should not people on the other side say , you can not deny these young people the opportunity to serve in the military .  should you not say , you should not deny these young people the opportunity to serve in the military unless they are gay or lesbian .  because if they are gay or lesbian , you want to deny them the opportunity to serve in the military regardless of any fault .  remember , this is one that says we just stigmatize you from the outset .  there is nothing you can do , there is no degree of service you can perform , there is no sacrifice you can offer to make that will allow you to serve your country .  and then we will complain because we do not have enough people to serve in the military .  and , again , literally thousands have been turned away .  the universities are not blocking recruitment .  they can not .  they are asking for the right to stand up for principle .  and now we are told by one other speaker , well , if they do not agree with the policy , you would think they would not accept the money .  please .  i would say to members , one rule in parliamentary debate : try to avoid saying something that no one will believe .  i mean , this notion that if you do not agree with a policy you should boycott the government , which is using your tax money , nobody believes that .  people get taxed , and sometimes they agree and sometimes they disagree .  we say to people , look , you can voice your opinion , but you can not avoid paying the taxes .  and , by the way , it is not money from the military they are seeking .  typically , what we have here are law schools .  it is law schools , as people have noted , who are doing this .  so people have said , well , what about the poor people ?  we are not getting enough wealthy people to offset the number of poor people .  well , we are talking about lawyers who are being recruited .  frankly , the poor people are not being recruited for the judge advocate general 's office .  it just does not compute .  but what they are saying is , we are not going to allow our facilities to be used in this discriminatory way .  and the law schools , by the way , are not themselves , and this is an important point , under the clinton administration the ruling was that we would look at each element of a university separately .  and if the law school said no military recruiting , that did not stop the medical school or the school of engineering from applying for federal funds .  what you now have is a policy that says if the law school says no , no other entity can get the money .  so there is no connection there .  the key issue here is this : have we not in this country come to the point where patriotic young gay men and lesbians who are prepared to serve their country will at least be given a chance ?  can you not judge them on their merits ?  can you not say , okay , we admire your willingness to do this .  we will judge you .  if it turns out you become disruptive , we will act .  but this blanket denial of even the opportunity no matter how talented , no matter how diligent ?  you enforce that as a policy , and then you complain that we have people being turned away ?  mr. speaker , i hope this resolution is not adopted , and i hope we will begin to reverse this blanket prejudicial policy that says to millions , millions of young american men and women , you need not apply to defend your country because we do not like some aspect about you , even if it is going to be entirely irrelevant to your service .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and for the distinguished way in which he has conducted the debate and also the gentleman from alabama ( mr. rogers )  for sponsoring this resolution .  mr. speaker , let us make this clear .  this is not about some social issue .  the real impetus for this barring of the american military from our college campuses is because of the left-wing core of administrators and professors who do not like this country .  and we could substitute another protest issue for them in this thing and it would not make a bit of difference .  these are the same people who in many cases had protests in favor of the viet cong during the vietnam war .  many of them protested our involvement in el salvador , protested our bringing democracy to nicaragua , protested our participation in the first desert storm in the early 1990s , and in this recent bringing of freedom to iraq .  they protested all those things .  they hate all things military .  and the interesting aspect of this debate is that these same left-wing professors and administrators profess to let young people make up their own minds .  free thinking is theoretically their trademark .  let us have some free thinking .  let us allow the military to be on the campuses .  let us allow the students to have access to their information , and let us let them make up their own minds .  there is no draft here .  this is a volunteer military .  they do not have to join the military .  but the idea that the left-wing professors and administrators have to protect the students from that very military that the gentleman from florida ( mr. miller )  so eloquently described as the protectors of all of our freedoms including their freedoms to have academic freedoms , to protest and to speak freely , the idea that these students have to be shielded from the guarantors of our freedoms is nonsense .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of our armed forces and in support of this nation 's continued efforts to give it the additional strength and stability it needs to keep our men and women safe .  the members of this house have joined their constituents in mourning the loss of life and injuries sustained in the course of america 's war and subsequent occupation of iraq for two years .  since the beginning of the iraq war in march 2003 , 1 , 423 members of the u.s. military have died , which includes 1 , 084 as a result of hostile action and 333 of non-hostile causes .  furthermore , my district of houston has experienced two deaths already since january ; six deaths in 2004 ; five in 2003 ; and numerous injuries over the course of the nation 's engagement .  no doubt , mr. speaker , i fully support the armed services .  in the spirit of achieving the goal of attracting the best and brightest candidates for service , i join my colleague from california in advocating this legislation .  however , we must support our troops in accordance with the u.s. constitution and with respect for civil rights and fundamental freedoms that are the rubric of this nation .  when the house debated h.r. 3966 , which would allow for the denial of federal funds for educational institutions unless military recruiters are provided access to the campuses of these institutions , i voted `` yes '' on passage of the measure with the understanding that no constitutional contravention would result from its implementation .  the resolution that is before the house today , however , is controversial because the final disposition of underlying federal jurisprudence could play a major role clarifying the way we apply constitutional principles to an act of congress .  the holding in forum for academic and institutional rights v. rumsfeld tells us that we must be very careful in the way we regulate society so as not to violate fundamental rights .  ( 390 f.3d 219 ( 3rd cir .  2004 ) ) .  so , mr. speaker , i do support the intent of this legislation because i honor the men and women who serve in our armed services and who sacrifice their lives for us .  however , i also support the upholding of the united states constitution and the respect for jurisprudence , and i believe it seriously damages our commitment to the three branches of government to encourage the interference with judicial decisions before a final rendering of a final review by the u.s. supreme court .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in closing , i would just say that we have heard some discussion today about policies of the united states armed forces for a long time .  since its inception , there have been special policies applied to our military , the ability to impose nonjudicial punishment , the ability to restrict entry by those who are too tall or too short , the ability to order its members away from home and into combat and into harm 's way .  but the discussion today is not about those policies and should not be about those policies .  the discussion today is about keeping our military , keeping our armed forces , the best trained , the best led , the best equipped in the world ; and that means we need the ability to recruit the best and the brightest .  this is about insisting that our military recruiters have equal access to america 's universities and colleges .  i urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from oklahoma ( mr. cole )  for yielding me the customary 30 minutes .  i also want to welcome him as a new member of the committee on rules .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for his succinct observation .  mr. speaker , i insert in the record at this point two articles .  one is an editorial from the new york times entitled , `` the price of homophobia. '' another is an associate press story entitled , `` report : number of gay linguists discharged higher than thought. '' the price of homophobia do n't ask , do n't tell -- just scream in frustration : it turns out that 20 of the arabic speakers so vitally needed by the nation have been thrown out of the military since 1998 because they were found to be gay .  it is hard to imagine a more wrongheaded rebuff of national priorities .  the focus must be on the search for osama bin laden and his terrorist legions , not the closet door .  the pentagon 's snooping after potential gays trumps what every investigative agency in the war on terror has admitted is a crucial shortage of effective arabic translators .  after the first world trade center attack , in 1993 , government agents revealed an alarming shortage of arabic speakers .  key notes , videotapes and a phone call pertaining to the attack were later found in a backlog of untranslated investigative data .  the shortage continued right up to and well beyond the 9/11 attacks .  three years after the towers were destroyed , the f.b.i. , rife with translation problems , admitted it had an untranslated backlog of 120 , 000 hours of intercepts with potential value about looming threats .  at the state department , a study showed that only one in five of the 279 arabic translators were fluent enough to handle the subtleties of the language , with its many regional dialects .  the military 's experience is no more encouraging , with intelligence results muddied at times by a rush , as one inquiry put it , to recruit arab convenience store owners and cabdrivers , who could n't handle the task .  the military is right to rely more on its language schools , but it can take several years to produce fluent graduates .  the folly of using `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' policy against such precious national resources amounts to comfort for the enemy .  when president bush was asked last week by the washington post why osama bin laden had eluded capture , he replied , `` because he 's hiding. '' so is the pentagon -- it 's hiding from reality .  report : number of gay linguists discharged higher than thought san francisco ( ap ) -- the number of arabic linguists discharged from the military for violating its `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' policy was nearly three times as high as previously reported , according to records obtained by an advocacy group .  between 1998 and 2004 , the military discharged 20 arabic and six farsi speakers , according to department of defense data obtained by the center for the study of sexual minorities in the military under a freedom of information act request .  the military previously confirmed that seven translators who specialized in arabic had been discharged because they were gay .  the updated numbers were first reported by the new republic magazine .  aaron belkin , the center 's director , said he wants the public to see the real costs of `` do n't ask , do n't tell. '' `` we had a language problem after 9/11 and we still have a language problem , '' belkin said wednesday .  the military 's `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' policy allows gays and lesbians to serve in the military as long as they keep their sexual orientation private and do not engage in homosexual acts .  but belkin and other advocates say such a policy endangers national security at a time u.s. intelligence agencies and the military say they do n't have enough arabic speakers .  `` the military is placing homophobia ahead of national security , '' said steve ralls , spokesman for the servicemembers legal defense network , a nonprofit group which advocates for the rights of gay military members .  `` it 's appalling that in the weeks leading up to 9/11 messages were coming in waiting to be translated ... ..  and at the same time they were firing people who could 've done that job. '' but others , like elaine donnelly of the center for military readiness , a conservative advocacy group that opposes gays serving in the military , said the discharged linguists never should have been accepted at the elite defense language institute in monterey in the first place .  `` resources unfortunately were used to train young people who were not eligible to be in the military , '' she said .  `` we need to recruit people who are eligible to serve. '' in the fiscal year ended oct .  31 , 2004 , 543 arabic linguists and 166 farsi linguists graduated from their 63-week courses , according to a dli spokesman .  that was up from 377 and 139 , respectively , in the previous year , reflecting the military 's increased need for translators in iraq .  experts have identified the shortage of arabic linguists as contributing to the government 's failure to predict the sept .  11 attacks .  the independent sept .  11 commission made similar conclusions .  the government `` lacked sufficient translators proficient in arabic and other key languages '' to adequately prepare itself against future strikes , the report said .  `` it used to be this was seen as a gay rights issue , but now it 's clearly a national security issue , '' said nathaniel frank , a senior research fellow at the center for study of sexual minorities in the military at the university of california , santa barbara .  ian finkenbinder , a u.s. army arabic linguist who graduated from the defense language institute in 2002 , was discharged from the military last month after announcing to his superiors that he 's gay .  finkenbinder , who said his close friends in the army already knew he was gay , served eight months in iraq and was about to return for a second tour when he made the revelation official .  `` i looked at myself and said , `are you willing to go to war with an institution that wo n't recognize that you have the right to live as you want to , ' `` said finkenbinder , 22 , who now lives in baltimore , md .  `` it just got to be tiresome to deal with that -- to constantly have such a significant part of your life under scrutiny. '' finkenbinder said his commander was upset to let him go because his arabic proficiency was at the highest possible for a nonnative speaker .  the servicemembers legal defense network last month sued the government on behalf of 12 gay former military members seeking reinstatement .  they 're seeking to overturn `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' alleging it violates their constitutional rights .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume in closing .  this congress should be leading the way to end discrimination of any form in this country .  unfortunately , we have a resolution before us today that condones discrimination .  i think it is sad we are dealing with this today .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the resolution .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do not accept the suggestion that the academic community is un-american and not in support of our military .  my friends in the academic community , and i have many in north carolina who are part of the academic community , they are good americans and they support our military completely .  i sincerely believe that these individuals have a genuine difference of legal opinion that must be resolved by our supreme court , and that is why i am supporting this resolution .  we need a determination by our supreme court of this matter .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition of this bill .  it does nothing to make america safer .  it is simply anti-immigrant legislation placed under the mask of homeland security .  the bill will prevent states from giving licenses to undocumented immigrants .  it will not prevent terrorists from obtaining identification forms .  all of the 9/11 hijackers were in this country legally .  in fact , allowing immigrants to have licenses actually improves homeland security by allowing our government to track who is in our borders .  this bill will also raise insurmountable hurdles for refugees seeking asylum and will deport victims of persecution into the hands of their persecutors .  proponents of this provision claim that we need to tighten asylum laws , yet , they can not pinpoint a single terrorist given asylum in the united states .  this bill will also require the completion of a fence on the mexican border , waiving environmental laws in california .  this fence is a complete waste of money and resources .  people will go over it , under it and around it to enter our country .  our immigration system is a broken system that needs to be fixed .  we need reform that provides hardworking people of good character with a real path towards citizenship .  but this bill is simply a band-aid on the problem that will not provide lasting reform .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  28 i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. speaker , i thank very much my friend from florida for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , my opposition to h.r. 418 is for two reasons , one that is broader in the context of the problems we face , and one is specific to asylum .  i am just going to address the former on the issue of debating essentially an unobjectionable rule that simply allows for general debate and urge opposition on that ground alone .  the placement of the bill on this agenda at this particular time is a manifestation of the triumph of ideology over common sense , and it is a response to spasms of anger rather than a reflection of sober analysis .  contrary to the arguments of the republicans , including my friend , the chairman of the committee , including the majority leader of this house , the issues of immigration reform , border security , national security , and public safety are inextricably linked .  but we hear not one word or hint of any intention on the part of the majority in this house , in contrast with both the president and the leadership in the senate , of ever dealing with the fundamental issue .  our immigration system is broken .  the results of that breakdown endanger american security .  between 8 and 14 million people are in this country without legal status .  they live in our shadows .  they utilize false documents .  their true identity is unknown .  for the most part , they work and pay taxes .  and , except for their illegal status , they observe our laws .  they provide the overwhelming proportion of the workforce in critical industries .  they are located throughout the country and they are subject to all kinds of exploitation , but for a variety of reasons , they have no intention of leaving this country .  a few among them , without doubt , a few among them mean harm to americans and are plotting terrorist acts .  the status quo is simply intolerable .  but where the proponents of this bill are so wrong , so self-defeating , is in thinking that piecemeal fixes like this have anything to do with protecting americans against those who are plotting to harm us .  only a comprehensive approach that deals with issues like defense , like a nonforgeable identifier , a nonforgeable social security card , effective enforcement , and coming to terms with the status of the 8 to 14 million people who are working and linked to working and have committed no other crimes , getting them out of the shadows so we can know who they are , we can fingerprint them and match them to watch lists .  that is the only way to deal with the problem .  look at our situation .  the majority leader says `` this bill is a border security bill .  it is a homeland security bill .  immigration reform is a completely different subject. '' the chairman of our committee , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , says `` it is to everybody 's best interest to separate out the security questions from the immigration questions. '' but you can not .  president bush knows that .  he realizes that these gentlemen are wrong , that this analysis is wrong , that this piecemeal approach is not going to do the job ; and he has repeatedly called for a comprehensive reform of our immigration system because `` the current system results in diverting homeland security resources to chasing people who are here because they want to put food on their table .  they take resources away from catching criminals and terrorists. '' that is the president .  senator cornyn , the new chairman of the subcommittee on immigration and claims , no liberal he , realizes that the strategy of the gentleman from wisconsin is a mistake .  he said it pretty specifically , `` i do n't believe we can deal with border security and homeland security without dealing with immigration reform. '' aside from the asylum provisions , i do not have any heartburn about these , of course , in a world where we have fixed the system so it does not have 8 to 14 million people here out of status , illegally , undocumented , and people who should not get driver 's licenses .  but this will not solve the problem .  there will be people who are not going to be here legally , who will have driver 's licenses after this bill passes , and there will be people with false ids after this bill passes ; and you will not have dealt with the fundamental issue .  for that reason , more than any other , although the fundamental change of the asylum system that is going to keep people fleeing persecution from finding their historic asylum in this country , without dealing anything with terrorists who are already eligible for asylum , is another reason to oppose this bill , and i urge opposition on it .  mr. speaker , what i would have asked the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  , had he been willing to yield some time , was to show me where in the 9/11 report it makes any reference to making any of the changes in the asylum law that are being proposed by the majority here in this bill .  there is no reference to that whatsoever , because the 9/11 commission knew that terrorists and threats to national security can not get asylum .  instead , the majority , because it does not agree with the commission on religious freedom , because it does not accept fundamental traditions of people who have a well-founded fear of persecution based on their political attitudes or their ethnicity or their religion or their gender , they do not want to make sure they are able to get asylum , they dump a whole bunch of things that have nothing to do with terrorism in here , not recommended by the 9/11 commission report , and then try to claim we are simply fulfilling the 9/11 commission recommendations .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  as a member of the congressional immigration reform caucus , i join with my colleagues to raise attention to the serious flaws in our immigration system which leave our nation exposed to potential threats .  the 9/11 commission made several recommendations which were not enacted as part of the national intelligence reform act of 2004 ( public law 108-458 ) , including provisions to strengthen identification document standards and to secure our borders .  the commission specifically recommended that the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification such as driver 's licenses .  in addition , the commission recommended the department of homeland security 's , dhs , completion of a biometric entry-exit screening system and the improvement of u.s. border security standards for travel and border crossing .  i was disappointed that the conference committee on the intelligence reform bill opted to remove the immigration-related provisions approved by the house during its consideration of h.r. 10 last fall .  i commend house leadership for honoring the commitment made to chairman sensenbrenner to allow the consideration of the bill we have before us today .  we have a real opportunity to adopt meaningful reforms to improve our immigration system .  h.r. 418 establishes strict proof of identity for all applicants for state-issued driver 's licenses and identification documents .  this bill serves to protect the integrity of our immigration laws by requiring states , in effect , to confirm lawful immigration status or disclose the lack of confirming identification on the face of cards issued .  h.r. 418 also makes aliens deportable for terrorism-related offenses to the same extent that they would be inadmissible for the same grounds .  if nothing else , our immigration system must prevent potential terrorists from entering the united states .  we would not be exercising our responsibility to protect national security if we were to allow our immigration system to be exploited by those malevolent individuals who seek to destroy americans and our way of life .  mr. chairman , there are many flaws in our immigration system which need to be fixed .  h.r. 418 does not address them all , but it does represent a good step forward in discouraging lawbreaking by those who would choose to exploit our welcoming nature .  as a cosponsor of the real id act , i urge my colleagues to improve our nation 's security and strengthen our immigration laws by voting for h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , our committee chairman is exactly right ; we can go to page 384 in the 9/11 commission report .  and i encourage all of my constituents to do this , look at this : `` for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons. '' and what is the number one travel document ?  it is a driver 's license .  it is a huge gaping hole that we have .  that is why it is imperative that we pass the real id act today and we set a national standard .  maybe that is just too much common sense for some of my friends that do not want us to do that , but if someone is going to use a travel document as a driver 's license and use it as a way to circumvent our laws and harm our citizens , then it is imperative that we close that loophole .  having standards that all the states would follow is a great way to close that loophole .  i would encourage my colleagues to support the real id act .  i thank the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) for his good work on this issue , and i encourage our constituents to read this report and see the importance of the actions that we are taking today .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentlewoman 's courtesy in permitting me to speak on this , and i agree with her very strongly .  make no mistake , our side of the aisle is supportive of this legislation .  we want to work with the state and local authorities first to do it right .  these are the people who feel these concerns every bit as strongly as members of congress .  in fact , they are on the line every day providing for the safety and security of our constituents in a much more immediate sense than we are .  do not be afraid to work with them .  but with all due respect to the gentlewoman from the district of columbia , i have one other provision that deeply offends me as a former elected official , as a member of this body and somebody who believes in checks and balances .  i look at section 102 .  i wish that it were buried in the legislation , but it is not .  it is right here in the beginning .  if this provision , the waiver of all laws necessary for quote improvements of barriers at the border was to become law , the secretary of homeland security could give a contract to his political cronies that had no safety standards , using 12-year-old illegal immigrants to do the labor , run it through the site of a native american burial ground , kill bald eagles in the process , and pollute the drinking water of neighboring communities .  and under the provisions of this act , no member of congress , no citizen could do anything about it because you waive all judicial review .  now , bear in mind you are giving this authority to the head of homeland security , hardly a paragon of sensitivity and efficiency .  anybody who stands in those lines week after week or watches the bizarre color-coded warning system knows that that is hardly the exemplar .  security at the borders is important ; and if somebody has a problem with building a security fence , by all means , congress should deal with it .  but as far as i know , no committee has been called upon to do that yet .  there are important waiver provisions that are available .  but waiving all laws for construction is an inappropriate decision .  and with all due respect , it is a dangerous precedent that anybody on either side of the aisle should be deeply offended by .  mr. chairman , i yield to nobody my concern that this bill has regarding the environment , but that is not the point .  we have already had our colleague , the gentleman from california ( mr. duncan )  , talk about how we passed specific legislation signed by president clinton that suspended the endangered species act .  what we are talking about here is far beyond this .  it is talking about suspending all laws , health , safety , immigration , payment for private property .  all laws , not the environment .  my colleagues would be creating not a couple of miles of exception to finish a fence , but you would be creating a zone 7 , 514 miles long under the terms of this bill , 5 , 500 in canada , almost 2 , 000 with the border of mexico , where all laws are suspended in the vicinity of the barrier .  my colleagues have no idea how much land they are exempting from compensation .  mr. chairman , there are only 11 , 751 people who have been privileged to serve in this chamber .  i do not think any of them have ever been asked to vote on anything more irresponsible .  it is a terrible precedent , unnecessary , and i urge its defeat .  mr. chairman , today 's bill would not be nearly as flawed or controversial if it had the benefit of going through the committee process .  unfortunately , we are faced with costly legislation that overturns states rights and does little to address the problems of our immigration system or to protect americans from another terrorist attack .  instead , this bill places enormous regulatory and financial burdens on state governments and makes department of motor vehicles ( dmv ) employees de facto immigration officers .  this policy promises to be ineffective as there are approximately 70 different kinds of immigration related documents issued by the federal government .  this bill will not deter illegal immigration ; it will probably mean illegal immigrants will drive without licenses .  in addition , in order to complete three miles of a border fence near san diego , section 102 of this bill suspends all laws , from public health and labor to the environment and property compensation .  in fact , all barriers and roads along 7 , 514 miles of u.s. borders would be exempt from all laws .  one person in the department of homeland security would be above the law without any judicial appeal or remedy .  this is unprecedented .  some of the environmental laws waived would include the noise control act , the clean water act , the farmland protection policy act , and the bald eagle act .  in addition to being bad public policy , this exemption is unnecessary , as most of these laws have security exemptions already written into them .  this legislation will not make us safer or reduce illegal immigration .  in the end , it is hard to imagine a more dangerous precedent .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding the time .  mr. speaker , i am here to support the rule and encourage this body to move forward with legislation that we have already debated many times in the last congress and legislation that really solves a problem .  i do suggest that using terms like `` immigrant hater '' does not help this debate .  this is about border security .  it is not about those of us who reach out to help immigrants , particularly those immigrants who are here legally and lawfully all the time .  it is not even about whether they are disadvantaged by people who are here illegally .  this is about three significant border security issues .  one is id and clearly id issued by states is important and significant .  the bipartisan commission that looked into 9/11 dealt specifically with this issue , something that has been overlooked in much of our debate now , the almost-sanctified 9/11 commission .  that commission said travel documents are as important as weapons and urged the congress to do something about travel documents that did not reflect the true status of individuals .  in fact , on september 11 , driver 's licenses became weapons of mass destruction .  in the united states today , a driver 's license is all it takes to transfer money to a bank account , to enter a federal building or other vulnerable facility , to board a train or an airplane .  lax standards and loopholes in the current issuance processes allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses , often multiple licenses from different states .  in southwest missouri , where i am from and right in the middle of the country , of the 1 , 387 people who were detained by the office there who were illegally in the country in the year that ended september 30 , 50 percent of those people had a state-issued driver 's license or state-issued id card , not at all difficult to get .  of the 19 terrorists on 9/11 , they had five dozen driver 's licenses between them and used those driver 's licenses to get on the planes that crashed into the world trade center , the pentagon , and a field in pennsylvania .  this act would require identity documents to expire at the same time a visa expires , so that someone who is here on an appropriate 6-month visa , as , in fact , much to our amazement , some of the 9/11 terrorists were , are not given a 6-years ' driver 's license when the documents they do produce say they can legally be here for 6 months .  this bill also tightens the process of applying for asylum in the united states to close loopholes in the system that have been taken advantage of by terrorists .  this issue was widely debated on the floor last year .  the example i gave was the terrorist who was here from jordan who had bombed an international school in jordan full of american kids .  well , that terrorist had not committed a crime in this country and under the current law was allowed to stay here unsupervised in a country full of american kids .  certainly that is not acceptable .  that person should have had to have a hearing .  this legislation requires that .  i urge that we adopt the rule and the legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise , of course , in support of this supplemental .  i also want to rise to really express my appreciation to the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the tremendous job he has done in limiting the scope of this supplemental and getting this work done in a quick way , and moving forward on the rest of our appropriations process at the same time .  these measures can often become reasons not to move forward with the normal work of the house , and the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and his committee and their staff have really accepted double responsibility and double duty by doing these things at the same time .  this bill does include , as my friend from maryland ( mr. hoyer )  mentioned , the embassy compound in baghdad .  he and i visited the current embassy together in december , and i think we disagree on the need to go ahead and get this project started now .  the project is 10 percent below the amount of money that the administration asked for .  it is a substantial amount of money .  it is a difficult environment , but bidding and starting these projects simply can not happen if we have a little piece of that money to start with ; you have to have the money available so that this embassy can be built and that our people representing us there in the embassy can be secure .  we had two people killed in the current embassy compound in recent weeks from a missile that was fired there , and we need to move forward .  in addition to providing vital funding for our troops in fighting the war , this bill also addresses some of the border vulnerabilities identified by the 9/11 commission .  this legislation does not create a national id card or a national database , but it does move forward in securing our borders and making our asylum process work better to protect americans , both young and old .  this legislation tightens the asylum system because of that .  finally , this legislation provides $ 635 million for increased border security and enforcement .  that includes $ 176 million to hire , train , equip , and support 500 border patrol agents and relieve current facility overcrowding .  it includes almost half a billion dollars for immigration and customs enforcement , which includes $ 97.5 million to hire and train additional criminal investigators and immigration enforcement agents .  this bill works to protect our fighting forces abroad , to help secure our borders at home , to move us forward in the war against terror .  i appreciate the committee 's work on it , and i encourage its approval today .  mr. chairman , today i rise to express my concern over a provision in h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  section 102 of this act states that the secretary of homeland security shall have the authority to waive , and shall waive , all laws necessary to ensure expeditious construction of barriers and roads in the vicinity of the u.s. border in areas of high illegal entry .  the provision also bars judicial review of any claim arising from the construction of barriers and roads at borders .  i understand that this provision is intended to apply primarily to the fence along the border near san diego .  the construction of that fence is critical to our national security and has been delayed for far too long and i think it is imperative that it be constructed as soon as possible .  however , i believe the provision currently contained in this bill is far too sweeping .  it should not be necessary to waive all laws and judicial review relating to the construction of roads and barriers along the border in order to complete the fence near san diego .  i hope that as the bill moves forward we can find a solution that will lead to the swift construction of this fence without sweeping away important laws .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his tireless efforts and leadership in getting the real id act to the floor and for championing national security issues and the crisis we face today with our nation 's border security .  i would also like to thank my colleagues in the southern california delegation for their efforts and for helping to protect not only their districts , but also the nation 's borders as well .  san diego border fence : for too long our nation has been playing chicken with our national security by ignoring the need to take a comprehensive approach to border security issues , particularly as they pertain to the mexican border .  the mexican border has long been a porous and unguarded route for anyone wishing to sneak into the united states to inflict harm on our nation and our citizens , including terrorists .  in particular , the san diego sector covers an area of more than 7 , 000 square miles and 66 miles of international border with mexico .  beyond that section of the border are the mexican cities of tijuana and tecate , which boasts a combined population of more than 2 million people .  this area of the border has been a heavily traveled route for illegal immigrants and potential terrorists due to the major cities and transportation hubs , such as lax airport in los angeles .  this area alone accounts for nearly 50 percent of national apprehensions of illegal immigrants nationwide .  a significant number of illegal immigrants that have been apprehended in this area can be directly attributed to the san diego fence that was constructed a few years ago .  the san diego fence is a project that was started several years ago , but a 3.5-mile section of the fence was not completed due to environmental concerns .  the portions of the san diego fence that have been built have proven to be successful and are credited with significant declines in attempted border crossings in that area .  the existing fence needs improvements and must be extended 3.5 miles to its originally planned length .  this legislation puts those priorities front and center by granting the secretary of homeland security the authority to waive all federal laws in order to complete the fence .  in addition , this bill will increase the funding to improve the existing fence with a 3-tiered fence system and complete the original designed length .  while environmental issues plays an appropriate role in our nations ' policies , the environmental and national security impacts of having illegal immigrants trample this portion of the border is greater than the concerns regarding building and completing the fence .  lastly , recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with alien smuggling rings in order to enter the united states , particularly through the southern border with mexico .  the time to act on the san diego border fence is now .  drivers ' license : real id act also bolsters stronger security standards for the issuance of drivers ' licenses to aliens .  this bill will establish requirements that help prove lawful presence in the united states prior to issuing a license to individuals .  in addition , it is critical that all states must comply to eliminate weak links in the domestic identity security .  we have all seen the failures of cards such as the matriculate consular cards and the widespread fraud that can take place .  this bill requires tough physical security requirements to reduce counterfeiting and to ensure state compliance with such standards .  lastly , drivers ' licenses that are issued in compliance with the new regulations will expire when an alien 's visa expires to alleviate any confusion or ability for terrorists asylum provisions : finally , the real id act will tighten the asylum system that has been abused and gamed by terrorists for years .  this bill allows judges to determine a witnesses ' credibility in their asylum cases .  without this change , judges have no discretion in determining the credibility of witnesses testifying that they are being persecuted .  judge 's hands have been tied over the years and must just grant asylum in every case where persecution has been raised and have not been able to go beyond that point .  this has allowed terrorists who have been persecuted in their home country for being terrorists to seek shelter in the united states .  currently , this argument can not be used against them and is not grounds for deportation .  this bill gives the power to refuse terrorists entry to the united states and allows terrorists to be deported back to their home country .  terrorists have long been abusing our system in order to gain entry .  this bill provides a list of long-accepted commonsense factors that an immigration judge can consider in assessing credibility , such as the demeanor , candor , responsiveness and consistency of an asylum applicant or other witness .  it is essential for judges to be able to determine asylum cases based on the credibility or lack of credibility of witnesses .  again , i would to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his efforts in getting this bill to the floor and i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill because these reforms are necessary to our national security .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  i had a very good discussion with the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  .  i did not come here to the floor to strike these provisions from the bill .  i will work with the administration .  i will work with the committee on appropriations .  i am going to do that as an authorizer .  i am not claiming jurisdictional grounds .  i am not going to play games with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  at all .  i thought what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did by making a performance of duty was a wise thing .  i think that was a wise move of the gentleman .  i do not know why the gentleman would be upset with regard to my remarks on performance of duty because what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did is followed what we , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. evans )  and i , had also recommended .  performance of duty is a good thing .  i do not have a problem with the performance of duty .  i have come to the floor to express some concerns with regard to the identification of an insurance product .  we are turning it into an indemnity and a gratuity with regard to an insurance product .  we have to be smart about our business with regard to how we proceed .  that is my purpose of being here .  it is not to reach into the treasury and just say we are going to give this money out .  but it does and i gave the example because you can have someone who has an accidental death or a duty nonperformance in the service .  i will be more than happy to get the gentleman legal counsel so he can understand what he has written .  i thank the gentleman .  what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did with regard to performance -- -- i believe that the performance of duty that is in the bill , what it does , it does identify with regard to who will receive payment and who do not receive payments .  that was why i used the word `` limited '' or `` restricted '' because you could have an individual , mr. chairman , of whom died in an auto accident , was murdered , or something happened to them and they do not qualify .  absolutely .  that is why what we have here are two individuals of whom understand what we are talking about but probably have a , well , anyway , let us not use semantics .  what i do wish to do as we proceed forward as we go to conference working with the senate is work also with the administration , work with the department of defense , the va and omb to make sure that we bring a proper identity with regard to service and group life insurance that also subsidizes veterans group life insurance , and that is what i want to work with the chairman on .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the rule on h.r. 418 .  our nation 's immigration policy has been of top concern in recent years , and for good reason .  with between eight and twelve million illegal aliens in the united states , it is obviously a problem out of control .  we need to increase border security and fix our immigration laws .  we need a system that will encourage well-intentioned , contributing aliens out of the shadows and allow them to pay a reasonable penalty so they can come into compliance with the law .  americans are rightly concerned about the security and the integrity of the nation 's borders because the system is broken .  some are concerned about the possibility of terrorists crossing our borders and coming into our cities .  but we can not effectively fight terrorism if we fail to make the distinction between them and busboys and housekeepers .  from 1990 to 2000 , the number of u.s. border patrol agents nearly tripled , but illegal immigration increased by as much as 5.5 million .  increasing enforcement resources to keep out willing immigrant workers , as we did throughout the 1990s , has not worked .  it has failed , and we need enforcement to be much more narrowly focused on criminals and potential terrorists .  today , we are considering h.r. 418 .  this legislation begins the debate on the enforcement aspects of immigration and addresses the narrow issue of driver license security .  i have reservations about the gradual move toward what could become a national id card , but this legislation begins to address issues necessary to focus efforts in enforcement .  mr. speaker , i intend to vote in favor of h.r. 418 , but while doing so , i suggest that enforcement , border security and immigration reform must be worked on together .  in fact , fixing the broken system requires a broader strategy that includes both enforcement and the creation of adequate legal channels for immigration that serve the nation 's interests .  by creating legal channels for those looking for a better life and looking to fill jobs that americans will not fill , we enhance our enforcement efforts .  the responsible authorities can focus their resources first on the worst actors .  our immigration laws and policies must reflect the realities we face today .  our economy demands workers , but our national security demands that we identify those lurking in the shadows .  enhanced enforcement must be the top priority for immigration policy .  the american people are not anti-immigrant .  we are concerned about the lack of coherence in our immigration policy and enforcement .  as part of today 's debate , we must realize that the congress needs to address the other issues with immigration reform now .  broader immigration reform has been outlined by president bush .  i commend him for his act of leadership .  he has outlined the solution and now congress must act quickly in crafting legislation .  this bill is our first step in a long journey to restore public confidence in an open , welcoming immigration code .  let us give thanks to our immigrants when b.c .  forbes sailed for america from scotland in 1904 , he was following a course well worn by generations of scots .  i know how the founder of forbes magazine must have felt .  the murdochs originally hail from the same part of scotland .  today , we are part of the most recent wave of immigrants attracted by the bright beacon of american liberty .  these days , it 's not always easy to talk about the benefits of immigration .  especially since 9/11 , many americans worry about borders and security .  these are legitimate concerns .  but surely a nation as great as america has the wit and resources to distinguish between those who come here to destroy the american dream -- and the many millions more who come to live it .  the evidence of the contributions these immigrants make to our society is all around us -- especially in the critical area of education .  adam smith , another scotsman , knew that without a decent system of education , a modem capitalist society was committing suicide .  well , our modern public school systems simply are not producing the talent the american economy needs to compete in the future .  and it often seems that it is our immigrants who are holding the whole thing up .  in a study on high school students released this past summer , the national foundation for american policy found 60 percent of the top science students , and 65 percent of the top math students , are children of immigrants .  the same study found that seven of the top award winners at the 2004 intel science talent search were immigrants or children of immigrants .  this correlates with other findings that more than half of engineers -- and 45 percent of math and computer scientists -- with ph.d.s now working in the u.s. are foreign born .  it 's not just the statistics .  you see it at our most elite college and university campuses , where asian immigrants or their children are disproportionately represented .  and a recent study of 28 prestigious american universities by researchers from princeton and the university of pennsylvania found something startling : that 41 percent of the black students attending these schools described themselves as either immigrants or children of immigrants .  the point is that by almost any measure of educational excellence you choose , if you 're in america you 're going to find immigrants or their children at the top .  i do n't just mean engineers and scientists and technicians .  in my book , anyone who comes here and gives an honest day 's work for an honest day 's pay is not only putting himself closer to the american dream , he 's helping the rest of us get there too .  as ronald reagan said at the statue of liberty , `` while we applaud those immigrants who stand out , whose contributions are easily discerned , we know that america 's heroes are also those whose names are remembered by only a few. '' let me share some of these names with you .  start with eddie chin , an ethnic chinese marine who was born a week after his family fled burma .  you 've all seen cpl .  chin .  because when baghdad fell , he was the marine we all watched shimmy up the statue of saddam hussein to attach the cable that would pull it down .  or lance cpl .  ahmad ibrahim .  his family came to the u.s. from syria when the first gulf war broke out .  now cpl .  ibrahim hopes to be deployed to iraq -- also as a marine -- to put his arabic language skills in the service of corps and country .  or what about cpl .  jos gutierrez , who was raised in guatemala and came to america as a boy -- illegally !  cpl .  gutierrez was one of the first marines killed in action in iraq .  as his family told reporters , this young immigrant enlisted with the marine corps because he wanted to `` give back '' to america .  so here we have it -- asian marines , arab marines , latino marines -- all united in the mission of protecting the rest of us .  is n't this what reagan meant when he said that the bond that ties our immigrants together -- what makes us a nation instead of a collection of individuals -- is `` an abiding love of liberty '' ?  so the next time you hear people whining about what a `` drain '' on america our immigrants are , it might be worth asking if they consider these marines a drain .  maybe this is more clear to businessmen because of what we see every day .  my company , news corporation , is a multinational company based in america .  our diversity is based on talent , cooperation and ability .  frankly it does n't bother me in the least that millions of people are attracted to our shores .  what we should worry about is the day they no longer find these shores attractive .  in an era when too many of our pundits declare that the american dream is a fraud , it is america 's immigrants who remind us -- by dint of their success -- that the dream is alive , and well within reach of anyone willing to work for it .  we are fortunate to have a president who understands that .  only a few days ago , the white house indicated that it intended to revive an immigration reform which the president had first offered before 9/11 and tried to revive back in january .  politically speaking , a guest-worker plan is no easy thing .  but as president bush realizes , we 'll never fix the problem of illegal immigration simply by throwing up walls and trying to make all of us police them .  we 've tried that for a decade or so now , and it 's been a flop .  what we need to do first is to make it easier for those who seek honest work to do so without having to disobey our laws .  fundamentally that means recognizing that an economy as powerful as ours is always going to have a demand for more workers .  such a policy would benefit us all : it would help those who want nothing more than to work legally move out of the shadows .  it would help our security forces stop wasting resources now spent on hunting down mexican waitresses and start devoting them to tracking the terrorists who really threaten us .  it would help the economy by providing america with the labor and talent it needs .  given the tremendous pressures on president bush and the considerable opposition from within his own ranks , the politically expedient thing for him to do would be to drop it .  but he has n't , and i for one am encouraged by his refusal to give in .  the immigrant editor b.c .  forbes spent much of the 20th century championing the glories of american opportunity .  we who have arrived more recently likewise will never forget our debt we owe to this land -- and the obligation to keep that same opportunity alive in the 21st .  mr. murdoch is chairman and chief executive of news corporation .  this is adapted from a speech he gave last thursday , in acceptance of the 2004 b.c .  forbes award .  immigration reform : a 3-legged stool while not a major theme of last fall 's campaign , a debate on immigration reform will be front and center in the early days of the new bush administration .  early last year , president bush acknowledged that our immigration system is broken and needs to be fixed .  for this he deserves credit .  recognizing that there is a problem is a critical first step toward finding a solution .  in the past 10 years , more than $ 20 billion has been spent on adding border patrol agents , building fencing and employing technology to prevent border crossings .  during roughly the same period , however , estimates on the net number of undocumented entering the country have risen from about 300 , 000 per year to about 500 , 000 per year .  more disturbing is that , in the past five years , more than 2 , 000 migrants have lost their lives perishing in remote portions of the american southwest .  and yet those who survive the gauntlet of a dangerous border crossing find work in short order .  our economy needs their manpower : the labor department projects that , by the year 2008 , there will be 6 million more low-skilled jobs available than americans able to fill them .  at the same time , these workers contribute billions to the tax and social security systems .  truth be told , our current system , instead of discouraging undocumented migration , makes it inevitable because adequate provisions in law do not exist to match up willing workers from other countries with unfilled jobs here .  work visas for unskilled workers are absurdly small compared to the demand -- 5 , 000 in the permanent system and up to 66 , 000 in the temporary one .  family-unity visas can be even scarcer , with waiting times as long as 10 years for mexican families to be reunited with a relative who is a u.s. citizen or legal resident .  we need immigration reform legislation with three major components , akin to a three-legged stool .  the administration plan proposed last january addresses only one leg -- employment -- which is insufficient to support the weight on the system .  first , any new proposal should feature means for undocumented long-term residents to access permanent residency .  legalization does not necessarily mean amnesty .  it can be conditioned on any number of criteria including -- for example , `` sweat equity '' the undocumented have already accrued through their work in the united states .  such a legal remedy would stabilize both immigrant families and the labor force .  second , it should reform the employment-based legal immigration system in a way that increases legal avenues to work while protecting the rights of both foreign-born and u.s. workers .  this would permit future flows of workers to enter safely and legally and reduce deaths at the border .  third , the plan should shorten waiting times under the family reunification system .  too often , our current system separates husbands from wives and parents from children , a morally unacceptable outcome in a nation built upon the strength of the family .  anti-immigrant polemicists ignore the human tragedy and familial dislocation enabled by the status quo , while discounting the invaluable contributions immigrants make to our nation .  americans are , as a whole , fair-minded people .  we can not continue to accept the benefits of undocumented laborers but be unwilling to extend to them the protection of the law .  the undocumented are not `` breaking '' the law as much as they are being `` broken '' by the law .  after our country 's unhappy experience with jim crow `` laws '' that resulted in the creation of a large black underc1ass , we should not repeat the same mistake in tolerating the creation of a large immigrant underc1ass by not affording legal remedies that would afford them the protection of law and the opportunity for upward mobility .  we applaud the president for recognizing how the present immigration regime hurts both americans and undocumented immigrants in america .  the new congress should work with president bush to enact a comprehensive solution to our immigration crisis .  only such a `` three-legged '' comprehensive approach will protect human rights and prepare our nation for the challenges of the future .  for doable policy resolving the dilemma posed by many millions of `` undocumented '' workers in america requires compromise that few will find completely satisfying .  temporary work permits will please neither those who want all illegal immigrants deported nor those who want another round of amnesty .  amnesty is politically untenable , and deporting millions of people is not doable .  it would require enormous amounts of money and manpower from a government that is already strapped to meet current social obligations and international commitments .  president bush told reporters recently that he wants u.s. border patrol agents chasing `` crooks and thieves and drug-runners and terrorists , not good-hearted people who are coming here to work. '' the president is seeking levelheaded immigration legislation that could improve domestic security and put policy in line with the needs of the globalized american economy .  the most sensible approach would offer legitimacy to those who have worked diligently in america , while imposing and enforcing tough employer sanctions against companies that continue to employ undocumented workers .  this would weaken the so-called magnet effect that lures otherwise law-abiding people to jump the border .  such a policy requires several key provisions .  one would obligate illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows to prove their identities in return for some form of legitimate status .  this type of trade-off serves u.s. interests by identifying those who are here `` to work , '' as the president has said .  bringing them out of the woodwork would allow law enforcement agents to focus more sharply on catching those who are here to do harm .  a reform bill should take into account the brainpower needs of the u.s. economy .  there are untold numbers of people around the world who are standing in line to legally enter the united states , and many of these would-be immigrants possess skills that american employers need .  since the sept .  11 attacks , this process has become cumbersome and counterproductive .  immigration reform should streamline the process for granting skilled foreigners access to the united states , particularly those well-suited for workplaces that have a tough time finding qualified hands .  there 's no reason the united states ca n't have a policy that promotes safety while meeting the needs of the workplace .  congress and the white house can find suitable resolutions to the security , social and labor quandaries posed by immigration if prejudices and stigmas are shoved aside in favor of rational proposals that bolster u.s. security and global competitiveness .  mr. chairman , i would like to submit a statement for the record from the americans for tax reform .  february 9 , 2005 .  our nation 's immigration and border control policies cry out for reform .  while our best border control officers should be preventing the next terrorist incursion into our country , they are instead hunting down willing workers .  the attacks of september 11th called for new and updated thinking in all areas of federal law enforcement , and immigration reform has been a glaring omission .  america 's immigration system must be reformed in a responsible , welcoming , adult manner along the lines laid out by president bush .  willing workers should be matched with willing employers , citizenship and residency applications must be streamlined , and the focus must shift to protecting the nation from terrorists .  border security has been increased since 9/11 , and should continue to be so .  the latest technology must be used to make sure america 's border is free of terrorist incursions .  in order to let the border guard do their job of defending america , the president supports giving foreign laborers guest worker cards , `` to match willing workers with willing employers. '' president bush is opposed to amnesty for illegal immigrants .  he also does not want to give foreigners in the guest worker program any advantage over those who are trying to become citizens through normal , due process channels .  congress should support president bush 's common-sense plan to reform and strengthen america 's broken immigration system even as border security is addressed today in the house of representatives .  grover norquist , mr. chairman , i congratulate the chairman and the committee on government reform for reporting out this bill that is so important that this congress take action on and take action on now .  of course we need to do this .  of course we need to pass the real id act .  because as the chairman just said , certainly all of us who board planes want to know that there is some integrity to our id system in this country and that terrorists are not boarding planes by the use of a state-issued identification card .  this is not conjecture .  this is what happened on 9/11 .  this is what the 9/11 commission suggested that we take action on , and this is what we are here doing today .  as the chairman suggested , i am proud to say that in 2003 virginia , under the leadership of former attorney general jerry kilgore , acted to close this dangerous loophole .  the general assembly passed and the governor signed into law a provision which requires the minimum standard , which says that anyone applying for a license in virginia must have legal status in this country ; that they must have a visa ; and that the license that would be issued would coterminate with the termination or expiration of that visa .  this is just common sense .  why do we want terrorists to have a license issued by a state to go and board our airplanes and commandeer those airplanes into a building ?  it is time for congress to act , to provide and mandate a minimum standard for states when they issue state ids , including driver 's licenses , to require that individuals who have that privilege be here in this country legally .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) for his leadership on this , and i urge passage of the real id act .  mr. speaker , i rise today to voice my strong support for h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief .  this essential legislation will support and defend america 's values both at home and abroad .  our troops serving in iraq will have the necessary tools to continue their rebuilding efforts in iraq and to continue the war on terror .  at home , the real id provisions will strengthen our nation 's driver 's license laws , providing each citizen with another layer of security .  until now , terrorists could easily exploit weak driver licensing laws and obtain fake documents .  with a license in hand , terrorists were better able to blend in , avoid detection , and harm our nation 's citizens .  this is exactly what several of the 9/11 terrorists did , using drivers ' licenses to board airplanes and murder thousands of innocent americans on september 11 , 2001 .  we in congress have been working on ways to prevent our nation from experiencing another terrorist attack by establishing stronger and more secure national programs .  stronger driver 's license standards made possible by the real id provisions will be another step towards american security .  the real id provisions will close dangerous gaps that remain in our current licensing law and that allow terrorists to abuse our asylum and driver 's license systems .  the new law will protect innocent americans by setting up national driver 's license standards , networking state motor vehicle data bases , and linking visa and license expirations .  in 2003 , the former attorney general of virginia , jerry kilgore , and i worked together on the driver 's license integrity act .  that legislation required non-immigrant aliens to show their visas when applying for state identification and tied the expiration date of the identification to that of the visa .  due to mr. kilgore 's leadership on this issue , the commonwealth of virginia was one of the first states to clamp down on terrorists ' abuse of the trust that a driver 's license conveys .  today , i am pleased to see virginia 's driver 's license integrity act provisions in this piece of legislation before us in the house of representatives .  since the beginning of the war on terror , congress has fought daily to ensure that our nation never again suffers at the hands of terrorists .  the provisions in this bill provide us with more weapons in our arsenal against terrorism .  i urge passage of this legislation .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 , to authorize emergency supplemental appropriations for our military .  the vast majority of this $ 82 billion bill will go directly to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan .  congress has a responsibility to work with the president to protect the national security of our nation .  when our soldiers are sent in to war , it is the congress ' responsibility to make sure that all resources necessary are provided to carry out their missions .  i stand behind our brave men and women who have performed admirably in iraq and afghanistan .  they have made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of their country and have served longer deployments than expected .  this bill provides important new benefits for our troops and their families .  the legislation : increases the military death gratuity ; increases subsidized life insurance benefits ; creates a new insurance benefit for soldiers who have suffered traumatic injuries , such as the loss of a limb ; extends the basic allowance for housing for dependents of soldiers who die while on active duty ; and provides additional funding for add-on vehicle armor kits , night-vision equipment , and radio jammers that disrupt remote-control bombs and mines .  the conference report also contains important measures to strengthen our domestic border security , by providing funds for new border patrol agents , immigration and customs investigators , enforcement agents , and detention officers .  the bill also provides additional foreign assistance for : tsunami reconstruction ; humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in darfur ; democracy assistance in belarus ; and political and economic reforms in ukraine to strengthen their new democracy and legal system .  i regret that the administration has consistently failed to properly budget for our ongoing military and reconstruction operations in iraq .  congress should not repeatedly rely on emergency spending bills to provide the critical funding , resources , and equipment for our troops in battle by using emergency supplemental appropriations bills .  the united states is only belatedly seeking international support for our reconstruction efforts in iraq , and we have failed to broadly engage the international community .  because of these failures , americans have paid a heavy price .  it is primarily american troops stationed in iraq that face continuing attacks , and have lost life and limb .  it is our taxpayers that are being asked to almost exclusively pay the cost to rebuild iraq , and these costs are mounting every day .  iraq is already facing a difficult transition in establishing a democracy that operates under the rule of law and protects minority rights .  the u.s. must show enough flexibility in working with our allies to effectively help iraq during this critical transition period , so that other countries will pledge both troops and funds to alleviate the burden on our american soldiers and taxpayers .  ultimately , the best way that we can support our troops is to reach out more aggressively to the international community , establish order and security in iraq , and help the interim iraqi government assume more responsibility for its own affairs as they establish a democratic state .  i am also disappointed that the republican leadership decided to insert extraneous provisions into this legislation , which go beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations .  i voted against the `` real id act '' when it was considered by this house as a separate bill earlier this year .  i am particularly concerned that this legislation repeals a number of provisions of the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 , which enacted the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  the 9/11 bill established a negotiated rulemaking framework -- allowing for critical input from governors , state legislators , state officials , and other stakeholders -- which would provide the opportunity to develop effective national standards for driver 's licenses .  i am concerned that this legislation does not give the states adequate flexibility to implement the 9/11 bill , and that this legislation may also create serious unfunded mandates and administrative burdens for the states .  as the ranking member of the helsinki commission ( commission on security and cooperation in europe ) , which promotes human rights and rule of law in europe , i am also concerned about many of the asylum law changes contained in the real id act , which again go beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations .  these provisions may have a harmful effect on true asylum seekers , trafficking victims , women and children who are victims of domestic violence , and others seeking protection against persecution .  this legislation may create higher burdens for legitimate asylum seekers , restrict judicial discretion to grant asylum , and take away some of the rights of appeal for certain refugees and asylum seekers .  over the past week i have heard from a number of groups in maryland that provide legal and social services to immigrants , asylum seekers , refugees , and survivors of torture and slavery .  these groups have reported to me that it is already extremely difficult for legitimate asylum seekers to prevail in their case , as they have often left their home country on short notice , and do not have documentation of their persecution .  it can take months or years for a case to work its way through our legal system .  during this period , the asylum seeker often has neither legal representation nor work documentation .  i hope that in the near future congress will have the opportunity , in a more thoughtful manner , to consider comprehensive immigration reform measures .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute , because i think the gentlewoman from texas has made some very valid points that need to be discussed .  one thing that is important and what we have done here is to understand that there has to be a conviction in this situation by a court of law before it can be entered into a database of the transportation security administration .  that is very important .  it gives all the protection of what could happen there .  we thought a lot about that because it was a matter of some concern .  so a mere allegation or something that proves not to be true would never be entered into the database .  i wanted to make that point .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for her good questions and for yielding .  we are not sure at this point whether they include that information or not at tsa , because simply they have databases and we do not know necessarily what is in their databases , and i do not blame them at all .  they are not prone to reveal all of that .  it is our judgment they should be doing this .  we hope that they would be doing it .  we do not know if they are for sure or not .  i can not confirm or deny that , because we simply do not know the answer to that particular question .  i would imagine , and i am putting myself in their position and i am not an expert on this , but if you are there and are in the security forces there , you are obviously trained in document recognition to some great degree .  some are better probably than others at this .  obviously , if one has a database , it is obviously much more of a clear signal that this person needs to be looked at because they tried to do this before .  that is the reason we feel it should be added into the database as it goes on .  i do not think this is going to change actually the way they look at licenses presently in the first instance or even in second instance .  it is just a trigger mark as other things might be in terms of potential risks .  yes .  mr. chairman , if the gentlewoman would yield further , no , i would not have objected to having hearings .  it is relatively simple .  i do not mean to suggest it needs panels of hearings , but i never object to having a hearing .  mr. chairman , i believe the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  has the right to close ?  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the real id act , and i want to thank the distinguished chairman of the committee on the judiciary , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , for his efforts in this matter .  it is very important .  this bill is about common sense .  it is about protecting our borders and making our country safer .  the 9/11 commission report revealed many disconcerting facts , none more unnerving than the fact that all but one of the 9/11 hijackers who were here temporarily obtained valid driver 's licenses , enabling them to travel freely about the country .  that is absurd , and the american people know it .  this bill finally does something about that absurdity .  we can not continue to let our laws be exploited and circumvented by future terrorists to further their plans of violence , destruction , and murder .  with the real id act in place , we can better prevent future tragic events from occurring .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to pass this critical piece of legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from texas for yielding me this time .  i would like to join in the point that is being made by the gentlewoman from texas to remind all of our friends that when republicans took power in 1994 , they made a solemn promise to the states that they would make sure that there would be no imposition of unfunded mandates on those states , and today we have a chance to redeem that promise by voting `` no '' on consideration of this rule , which waives the unfunded mandate requirement .  the majority may , if they have not already , attempt to argue that it is a minor mandate and show new and improved cbo estimates showing that the cost of this bill is only $ 125 million over the next 5 years ; and , therefore , i think this warrants at minimum committee hearings in markups that has so far been denied this congress .  so we are not asking a lot this afternoon .  and i am impressed by the governors association .  their letter points out that while they commend the gentleman from michigan ( chairman sensenbrenner ) and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) for their commitment to driver 's license integrity , they find that those bills would impose technological standards and verification procedures on states , many of which are beyond the current capacity of even the federal government .  moreover , the cost of implementing such standards and verification procedures for the 220 million driver 's licenses issued by the states represents a massive unfunded mandate .  so they close by urging us to allow the provisions of the intelligence reform act of 2004 to work .  so i commend the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  for making such a very timely and important point of order , and i support her in it .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i rise , regrettably in opposition to this anti-immigrant legislation .  mr. chairman , if we truly believe in all we have heard about the importance of freedom and liberty from our president and others , then we have no other choice but to vote down this bill which denies so much freedom and liberty to the immigrants in our own country .  h.r. 418 includes provision after provision limiting the rights of refugees , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , unfunded mandates , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning construction of barriers and fences anywhere within the united states and denying immigrants long-standing habeas corpus rights .  this is a work of art that has to be examined very , very carefully and very critically .  if this measure becomes law , this will close america 's doors to cubans fleeing from their country , religious minorities attempting to escape religious persecution , women fleeing from sex trafficking , rape or forced abortions .  unfortunately , in our history , there have been a number of examples of this overreaction in the past .  for example , during the civil war , general ulysses grant , no less , sought to expel the jews from the south .  the aftermath of world war i brought the notorious red scare , and the very long remembered anti-immigrant palmer raids from the attorney general of that era .  of course , world war ii gave us the searing memory of the unconscionable internment of japanese americans .  in the wake of the 9/11 tragedy , and even after the patriot act , which did its share of violating the rights of those who were in this country , this legislation would even further target immigrants for crimes they have not committed and for which they are not responsible .  at some point we have to treat terrorism as a problem that requires intelligent response , as opposed to an excuse to scapegoat immigrants .  for all these reasons , there are so many groups lined up behind the american civil liberties union to oppose the bill : immigration rights groups , civil rights groups , civil liberty organizations , private rights groups , labor organizations , environmental groups , native american rights , states ' rights and international human rights groups .  so , i urge us in good conscience and serious concern over the direct and the subtle import of this legislation , please , we can not and should not close ourselves off to the most vulnerable members of our society .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  be permitted to manage the bill on this side of the floor .  mr. chairman , i need my friend to know that they are in the process of having the claim heard .  it has not been terminated or it is not all over .  but we are arguing the substance .  what i was trying to figure out is , what inspired the gentleman at this late point in the proceedings , since we had hearings last year , we had no hearings this year , and we just found out about this yesterday .  mr. chairman , what i would like to find out , if the gentleman knows , has this ever occurred in the history of federal legislation before that for a given instance all laws , local , state , national , will be waived all at one time for one specific purpose ?  i thank the gentleman .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this supplemental appropriations bill and the anti-immigrant legislation it contains .  if we truly believe all the rhetoric we hear about the importance of freedom and liberty from the president and others , we will vote down this bill , which denies so much freedom and liberty to immigrants in our own country .  h.r. 1268 includes numerous provisions limiting the rights of refugees , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers anywhere within the united states , and denying immigrants long standing habeas corpus rights .  if enacted into law , this legislation will close america 's doors to religious minorities escaping religious persecution and women fleeing sex trafficking and rape .  we have been down this road of overreaction in the past .  during the civil war , general grant sought to expel the jews from the south .  the aftermath of world war i brought about the notorious red scare and the anti-immigrant palmer raids .  world war ii led to the unconscionable internment of japanese americans .  in the wake of the 9/11 tragedy , and even after the patriot act , this legislation would further target immigrants for crimes they have not committed , and sins they are not responsible for .  at some point , we have to treat terrorism as a problem that requires an intelligence response , as opposed to an excuse to scapegoat immigrants .  it is for all these reasons that so many groups strongly oppose this bill , including groups concerned about immigrant rights , civil rights and liberties , privacy rights ; labor rights ; the environment ; native-american rights ; state rights , and international human rights .  i urge a `` no '' vote .  we can not and should not close ourselves off to the most vulnerable members of our society .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am happy to join this debate as the chairman of the committee on homeland security and welcome the gentleman from mississippi ( mr. thompson )  , my ranking member .  we are here because each day thousands of people illegally enter the united states .  they know where to cross .  they know how to get a driver 's license .  and if they are caught , they even know how to rig our legal system to stay in the country nonetheless .  what has been the result of this broken system ?  on january 25 , 1993 , mir aimal kansi stood at the entrance of the central intelligence agency and gunned down five people .  a month later ramzi yousef masterminded the first bombing of the world trade center .  both men were in the country because they were awaiting the outcome of their asylum applications .  this legislation will fix that loophole .  on september 11 , 2001 , according to the 9/11 commission report , the 19 hijackers responsible for the 9/11 terrorist attacks carried between them 13 u.s. driver 's licenses and 21 state-issued id cards .  several of these hijackers had overstayed their visas , and they were unlawfully in this country .  but their driver 's licenses permitted them to board those airplanes nonetheless .  this bill fixes that problem .  the laws that we are operating under today allow terrorists to enter our country and to plan and carry out attacks in the united states .  the reality is that this homeland security vulnerability is being exploited by terrorists and criminal aliens every day .  h.r. 418 makes necessary changes to ensure that terrorists do not obtain identification , as did the 9/11 hijackers , that will permit them to board airplanes or access federal facilities or easily travel within the united states .  the most literal security gap that this bill addresses is the 3-mile hole in the san diego border fence .  recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with human smuggling rings in order to enter the united states .  as we now know , the 9/11 hijackers were interviewed 25 times by u.s. consular officers ; they had 43 contacts with immigration and customs authorities .  but because of administration and congressional initiatives requiring the screening of all foreign nationals entering the united states , terrorists will be forced to resort to crossing our borders illegally .  the border security fence , therefore , which thus far has been mired in bureaucratic delays , is part of our national security efforts and must be completed now .  for decades the border between san diego and mexico has been the preferred corridor for entry into the united states by unknown or undocumented persons .  with highly populated cities both north and south of the border as well as relatively quick access to national transportation hubs such as lax , it is the perfect place for aliens to slip across the border and gain quick access to u.s. communities and transportation networks .  the important infrastructure assets in the area , including in particular the largest naval base on the west coast of the united states and the busiest seaport in the united states , makes securing this area even more important .  from september through november , 2004 , the border patrol apprehended over 23 , 000 individuals with criminal records including 84 wanted for murder and 151 wanted for sexual assault .  in 2004 border patrol agents arrested almost 1.2 million illegal aliens with 11.6 percent of those apprehended in the san diego sector alone , despite the fact that the san diego sector is roughly 1 percent of our border area .  over the past 2 years , the three border patrol stations responsible for patrol of the existing 14 miles of border fence in the san diego sector have apprehended approximately 200 special interest aliens annually from countries such as afghanistan , iran , iraq , pakistan , and turkey .  completion of this fence will not only reduce the number of illegal crossings in the area but will also allow the border patrol to redeploy manpower and redirect precious resources to other important homeland security missions along the border .  and like the other border fence areas , the san diego sector can expect to see a reduction in crime , including murder , as well .  of the 14 miles authorized by congress several times , 9 miles of the triple fence have been completed .  but only in washington would people construct a fence with a big hole in it .  the final 3 1/2 miles has been held up due to bureaucratic red tape and lawsuits .  the border patrol has worked to alleviate the environmental concerns that have been raised .  in fact , the u.s. department of the interior 's fish and wildlife service concluded in july , 2003 , that construction of the fence `` is not likely to jeopardize '' the continued existence of any relevant endangered species in the area .  furthermore , not completing the fence will continue to cause other environmental damage in the area due to large numbers of persons crossing illegally through this area and subsequent pursuit by the border patrol , as well as large amounts of trash and refuse left in the wake of smugglers and illegal crossers .  as chairman of the committee on homeland security and a california resident , i am extremely concerned by the roadblocks that different bureaucratic groups have used to justify thwarting this important project .  for example , in september of 2003 , the san diego border patrol requested entry to a section of county-owned land located in the 3 1/2 mile section in dispute and located about 300 feet from the u.s.-mexican border in order to , first , improve the road for safety of the border patrol agents ; and , two , take soil samples in order to address environmental concerns pertaining to construction of the fence .  but the san diego county department of parks and recreation denied access , saying there was no authority to enter upon the land .  after months of negotiation , i have been told that the issue was finally resolved , but this clearly demonstrates that federal action is necessary to ensure that the fence is completed and that border security remains a priority .  the time for delay and bureaucratic obstruction is over .  we must complete this fence , and we must pass h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that debate be extended for 1 additional minute , to be divided equally between majority and minority .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , several provisions in this legislation are of particular interest to the committee on homeland security .  first , this spending bill will be procedurally consolidated with the real id act , which the house approved 261-161 on february 10 , 2005 .  we can not effectively fight terrorism if we can not verify the identity of people boarding airplanes , entering nuclear power plants , visiting the white house , or gaining access to any of the countless places a terrorist could use as a stage to multiply the effect of an attack .  accurate identification of individuals before permitting them access to critical infrastructure is a prerequisite to success .  the failure to ensure the integrity of identification documents that can be legally used to access critical infrastructure means that the entire process of checking ids is deeply flawed .  likewise , the time and effort of every law abiding citizen who waits in seemingly endless lines , first to obtain and then to present identification , is wasted .  document fraud is a crime against all americans who must tolerate the indignity of life in a post-9/11 world .  why must honest americans prove who we are , again and again , if terrorists and criminals are free to make a hash of this requirement ?  five weeks ago , the house approved the real id act , just as we did in the 108th congress .  in so doing , we responded to the challenge put before us by mir aimal kansi , who slaughtered five people at cia headquarters ; by ramzi yousef , who masterminded the first world trade center attack ; and by several of the 9/11 hijackers who would have found it far more difficult , if not impossible , to carry out their terror attacks had we prevented them from using false identification .  this spending bill also contains funding to secure our borders .  to secure our nation from nuclear attack , the legislation includes $ 55 million to detect nuclear material at foreign ports .  the megaports initiative is designed to interdict illicit traffic in nuclear and other radioactive materials .  by surveilling container shipping at high volume , high risk overseas ports , and by deploying radiation detection devices at our own ports of entry , america 's counter-terrorism strategy can succeed in a comprehensive defense of the global supply chain .  this bill also provides $ 38.97 million for the terrorist screening center .  this multi-agency homeland security effort is responsible for supporting the department of homeland security 's effort to screen passengers on both domestic and international flights .  this new funding will help the tsc to handle new requirements , such as the department of homeland security 's secure flight program .  mr. chairman , on september 11th , the terrorists did n't just use box cutters and airplanes to attack america , they used our own laws against us to help them murder thousands of people .  h.r. 418 , the real id act , will fix these loopholes in current law and also take steps to close gaping holes in our land borders , which are the first line of defense against terrorist infiltration , not just for the border states , but also for my home state of wyoming and the rest of the nation .  we all know how the 9/11 terrorists manipulated our asylum laws to stay in our country , and utilized lax drivers ' license standards to help them carry out their plans .  we know that human traffickers continue to take advantage of the gaps in our borders , helping terrorist and criminal aliens gain entry into our country .  yet some still question the need to turn this invaluable knowledge into meaningful action .  as an original cosponsor of the real id act , i ask my colleagues to look beyond the false rhetoric that has clouded this debate and realize what is really at stake -- the safety and security of our nation .  i refuse to gamble with the lives of american citizens , rolling the dice on flawed policies that have already failed to protect us against terrorism .  today we have the opportunity -- and more importantly , the responsibility -- to pass this legislation and make the terrorist handbook obsolete .  mr. chairman , i reject the statement made a minute ago that this is an anti-immigration bill .  i support the sensenbrenner bill .  i think security is a national issue .  but to suggest that this is an anti-immigrant bill is , in my opinion , wrong .  we support legal immigration into this country .  it is what has made this country so great .  but we also need to take care of security .  if you want to come in on a visa , you want to come in to be a citizen , support it .  but if you are here illegally , it is wrong .  each year i have one family , just last year , the father survived .  the wife died .  he lost a child to illegal immigrants .  i wish that was the only case .  each year we have several of these .  illegal immigrants driving and causing accidents , and people say , well , they are here ; they have got to go to work .  well , they will go to work if we can get them to be legal .  but not if they are here illegally .  if they are in this country illegally , they need to go out and come back legally with a visa or proper method .  and that is why i support the sensenbrenner bill , to make sure we do not have metricula cards , we do not have driver 's licenses to illegals , and that the driver 's license has a clip to ensure that it is proper by the federal government .  mr. chairman , i would say to my friend , the gentleman from california ( mr. farr )  , during the last debate i invited him to come down and look at the 7-mile area in that fence , because it is a problem .  i am looking forward to working with him , because if you are an environmentalist , it is hard pan .  i mean , it has totally destroyed the plants , the animals , the lizards , and it is like a venturi tube .  the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  first came to me in 1990 and asked where we could get landing mat , and we put that up .  why ?  because the number of rapes of mexicans who were coming across , the number of drugs that were coming across .  there is one strand of wire on the ground where you could just drive from one field to another with a loaded truck , and it has stopped a lot of that .  does the fence stop illegal immigration ?  no .  but it sure frees up a lot of the border patrol and makes it easier for them , and that 7 miles is like a venturi tube and it forces our border patrol into that area .  i agree with the gentleman from texas ( mr. reyes )  , and i am going to work with anybody over there , especially him , because he does have the expertise and he is a good friend .  i agree with him that the president 's budget does not include the funding .  but no clinton budget ever passed either , and we are going to add that ; and with the help of my friend , we are going to add the funding for those new border patrol .  mr. chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  talked about , in 1990 , when he came to me while i was still in the military asking me about landing mats to put up for the border .  he and i have actually been down there welding to get that up .  why ?  why would we do that ?  take this floor , if this was a farmer 's field and you had a single strand of wire that was lying on the ground , that is what separated the united states and mexico .  we had truckloads of drugs coming across in a 100-mile sector that we could not stop .  in 1 year , there were a number of rapes and a number of murders by the coyotes and people on the u.s. side of people trying to get across .  when my colleague arranged to put up that fence , it stopped all of it .  now , there are all kinds of ways in which you can stop something here in this body .  we can have hearings and say we are going to do this or that , but with the fence area , these 7 miles , another way is to waive the environmental things .  the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  also showed that president clinton did this .  if we do not do this , my colleagues , we will not get it done .  and it will help security .  documents that we have captured from al qaeda show that they consider the border vulnerable , with cells in mexico itself .  and so it is not just sealing off the border for security , but it is other things too .  in san diego , in california , we have about 800 , 000 illegals in k-through-12 education .  use half of that , use 400 , 000 .  that is $ 2 billion a year out of california .  that does not account for the $ 1.5 million a day for the school lunch .  now , i can not stop those kids .  i have been in those schools .  there is no way i would take that lunch away from those critters .  but we need to secure our border to stop the flow coming in .  if we know , with the bill of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , who is there legally , it is much easier to tell who is there illegally .  so i ask my colleagues to give this support because we really need to complete this .  mr. speaker , i have been flying wing on the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  for about 14 years , and he has always got me home safely .  the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  and his wife are out at bethesda in the hospitals every single day taking care of our troops .  there is no better team than the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  to make sure that our men and women are safe .  i have another great friend in the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  and if we were back in the times of troy , i would be achilles , and he would be hector , and we would cross swords , but we would respect each other .  and there is one area , mr. obey , when you mentioned homeland security we can seat those swords .  the gentleman from california ( mr. cox )  is working on the abuses of the homeland security money .  that is being taken on .  i think we can work in a very bipartisan way to make sure that that happens .  i would like to thank the chairman for the border issues , that we have been able to secure our borders with this bill and provide for border patrol .  many of us have been working on this for years .  and the speaker has granted us that at the first must-pass bill we can bring this forward .  mr. chairman , i rise today out of frustration with h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act .  i support passage of this legislation , as i believe it is absolutely necessary to continue to fund the important activities of our brave men and women fighting the global war on terrorism .  our men and women depend on having the necessary equipment and systems to be successful in mission accomplishment .  as a member of the house armed services committee , i am actively involved in efforts , for example , to better protect our troops while they are in harm 's way .  with that said , the inclusion of spending projects within this bill that certainly do not qualify as either `` emergency '' or `` wartime '' is outrageous .  the issue at hand is not whether or not it is necessary to fund the noble efforts of our soldiers , for that answer is self-evident .  rather , the question is about our responsibility to spend the american people 's money wisely , and in a manner consistent with the established process .  i do not doubt that the non-wartime , and non-defense related projects in this bill are worthwhile ; however , the decision to fund these projects should be made during the established appropriations process .  certainly , it is inappropriate for this body to have to consider legislation under the guise of emergency , wartime spending , when in fact , that description is not completely honest .  again , i support this funding legislation as it pertains to the support of our military , and our efforts to protect american citizens , and to promote peace and democracy in the middle east .  however , i do not support the inclusion of unrelated projects within this bill , and find it most unfortunate that members of congress are forced to vote on such legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i do want to close , if there are no further speakers , and acknowledge that we have important work to be done here .  we have highly professional personnel at the border , and they are doing their job , but we need to provide more of them .  we need to fund the border security proposals that we have been putting forward for some time .  we need to be sure that we fund those .  but the other piece of that , and i am delighted that the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  has brought that forward , is to be certain that the most sophisticated applications of that technology are used on the border .  i speak to many companies in san diego .  i know that they have a great interest in this .  they have been a part of some of these solutions in the past .  let us employ them ; let us be sure that we are doing this in a comprehensive fashion .  so i want to thank the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  .  we must move forward in this area .  we can do a far better job on the border than we have done before .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i rise today in support of h.r. 418 .  i want to thank my colleague from wisconsin for his leadership and tireless efforts to secure our nation 's borders .  last year , the congress passed the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , enacting into law many of the recommendations made by the 9/11 commission .  unfortunately , not all of the recommendations were included in the first round of legislation , which is why we are here today .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) and i committed to working together to make sure that one of the first orders of business considered by the house in the 109th congress would be to address some of the recommendations in our jurisdictions that the congress failed to address last year .  i want to use my time today to discuss the provisions contained in h.r. 418 that fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on government reform which i chair : security measures for federal acceptance of state-issued driver 's licenses and personal identification cards , commonly referred to as identity security .  last year 's 9/11 commission report identified a number of gaps and weaknesses in our nation 's intelligence and homeland security systems , providing recommendations for congress to consider in fixing these problems .  one of the most pressing recommendations proposed by the commission and one that fell within the jurisdiction of the committee on government reform appears on page 390 of the 9/11 commission report .  it is the following : secure identification should begin in the united states .  the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification , such as driver 's licenses .  fraud in identity documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  at many entry points to vulnerable facilities , including gates for boarding aircraft , sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists .  for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons .  the 9/11 hijackers relied on a wide variety of fraudulent documents .  we know that the 19 hijackers held 63 driver 's licenses or id cards .  based upon guidelines proposed by state motor vehicle administrators and adopted by a number of states throughout the country , our committee worked with other interested stakeholders to craft legislation that would establish minimum standards to be accepted of state-issued identification that could be used for federal purposes .  these important provisions were overwhelmingly passed by the house as part of h.r. 10 and heralded by the 9/11 victims ' families .  unfortunately , the house-passed provisions critical to strengthening identity security were dropped from the bill in conference .  instead , language was included that would set up a general framework for a federal role in this area , but the language was filled with so many loopholes and opt-out clauses for states that it really only made matters worse .  we find ourselves here today to correct these mistakes and to again enact meaningful reform .  h.r. 418 provides the congress with this opportunity .  our approach is very straightforward .  our legislation would set forth minimum document and issuance standards for federal acceptance of driver 's licenses and state-issued personal identification cards .  the legislation would provide 3 years for states to come into compliance with these standards if their driver 's licenses are to be recognized for federal government purposes and their documents as proof of an individual 's identity .  as the 9/11 commission concluded , fraud in identity documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  as we continue to strengthen our intelligence function to better identify and track terrorists , those individuals will be forced to find ways to conceal their identity in order to avoid detection .  we know that the 9/11 hijackers used the united states as their staging area for training and preparation in the year prior to the attacks , traveling into and out of and around the country with little fear of capture .  in fact , several of the hijackers lived less than 15 miles away from this building while making final preparations for their attack .  we are dedicated to making sure we do not provide such a hospitable environment in the future .  as chairman of the committee that oversees federalism issues , i am mindful of concerns about the federal government imposing burdens on states , so-called unfunded mandates .  my response is threefold .  one is that this is a national security issue that requires a unified national response rather than 50 separate responses .  secondly , the legislation authorizes grants to states to conform to the minimum standards set forth in the act .  third , i am confident that these minimum standards will not be a heavy lift for a majority of the states in our nation .  it is the handful of states that continue to have lax security standards more than 3 years after 9/11 that may have the most work to do .  it is crucial that we do everything we can to enhance the security of the american people , and this important legislation takes a significant step in frustrating terrorists ' attempts to integrate into our society .  i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 418 and strengthen identity security .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , may i inquire of the time on each side .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i note on page 390 of the 9/11 commission report , it recommends secure identification should begin in the united states .  the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification such as driver 's licenses .  mr. chairman , i look forward to working with the gentleman from virginia ( mr. moran )  on this issue as we move forward .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just sum up and say this does not require anything from the states as far as driver 's licenses go .  states do not have to do anything under this for their driver 's licenses .  they can issue driver 's licenses to whomever they want .  but if they intend to use those licenses for federal purposes , we have a right to say what the criteria should be and under those circumstances , they are going to have to show legal presence .  it is not anti-immigrant .  in fact , this allows the states to issue two different sets : one for illegal immigrants , one for everyone else .  it takes the national security issue away from the argument there .  finally , the opt-out provisions in the current legislation that was passed just a few months ago are disastrous .  we were worse with the 9/11 response that passed this congress than we were without it .  this rectifies that .  it closes that loophole .  out of respect for the victims , the families , the work of the 9/11 commission , i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the conference report on h.r. 1268 and urge all my colleagues to support it .  in addition to necessary funding for our troops , tsunami disaster relief , and border security ; this conference report also includes important provisions to bring long-overdue , common sense reform to drivers ' licenses and state-issued identification cards , authored last year by the government reform committee in response to a recommendation of the 9-11 commission .  mr. speaker , i want to especially thank the speaker and majority leader for making good on their promise to get this legislation to the floor signed into law quickly in the 109th congress .  i also want to thank my colleague from california , the chairman of the appropriations committee , for his strong support and for agreeing to include these provisions in h.r , 1268 .  finally , i would like to thank my colleague from wisconsin for his tireless work and support on this issue , last year following passage of the 9-11 commission recommendations implementation act , he and i made a commitment to work together to ensure that the most important provisions not addressed in the final bill would be addressed early in the 109th congress .  that commitment is being fulfilled today .  judging by the basic nature of these requirements as well as the actions taken by some states , it is quite obvious that not enacting these reforms does not come from a lack of ability , but from a lack of will .  the federal government can not continue to allow our security responsibilities to be compromised by the inaction of a few .  our approach is very straightforward .  building upon guidelines and best practices established and accepted by state motor vehicle administrators , the federal government 's long-standing work on identity security , and actions taken by individual states to shore up their licensing process following the terrorist attacks ; our legislation sets forth minimum document and issuance standards for federal acceptance of driver 's licenses and state-issued personal identification cards .  the legislation provides three years for states to come into compliance with these standards in order for the federal government to recognize their documents as proof of an individual 's identity .  let me make one thing perfectly clear .  states that want their drivers ' licenses to be used for federal identification purposes will be required to meet these standards .  all of them .  if they do not , the citizens of that state will not be able to use their driver 's license to identify themselves for many purposes that they use them for today , such as boarding an airplane .  the bill and the report make clear that the secretary must determine the uses , in addition to those set forth in the bill , for which drivers licenses only from complying states will be accepted .  importantly , the final bill makes clear that the secretary of homeland security will be responsible for ensuring that the certifications represent full compliance .  this requirement ensures that the national security interests of the united states will be protected through enforcement of the requirements of the bill .  states will also be required to confirm the applicant 's proof of legal presence in the united states .  currently , only 11 states lack such a requirement , meaning a majority of states have already recognized the need for tighter standards , but unnecessary and dangerous gaps in the system still exist .  importantly , states are still permitted to issue drivers ' licenses to individuals who are not lawfully present in the united states or who can not provide satisfactory proof of identity .  the ability of states to have such a system is currently under challenge in court , and this legislation will provide them with express authority .  the bill further provides that these licenses or identification cards must be clearly visually differentiated from other licenses and contain specific language regarding their validity for federal identification and other official purposes .  in addition , the legislation will require identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status -- this will prevent individuals who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the united states from having valid identification documents .  this loophole was highlighted on september 11th , as nawaf al hazmi and hani hanjour , the pilots of flight 77 , both obtained licenses and identification cards after the expiration of their visa authorization .  we must correct this dangerous problem before we again give individuals who have overstayed their visas the tools they need to integrate into society and carry out criminal and terrorist acts .  mr. speaker , it is important to note that these actions are consistent with actions taken by individual states to date .  for example , nevada and new mexico do not accept , as proof of identity , a state-issued driver license or identification card from states that do not meet their own standards .  the federal government has been delinquent in dealing with this issue , but we are correcting that problem today .  fraud in identity documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  as we continue to strengthen our intelligence function to better identify and track terrorists , those individuals will be forced to find ways to conceal their identity in order to avoid detection .  we must be able to establish , as close to certainty as we can , that people are who they say they are , and in order to do so the federal government must have documents that it can trust .  in fact , we would not be fulfilling our security role for the american people if we did not .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support these important provisions and the passage of this conference report .  mr. speaker , i want to comment briefly on the $ 82 billion spending bill that will be approved today for the ongoing u.s. military campaigns in iraq and afghanistan .  i will support this bill .  i am pleased it includes additional money for body armor and armored vehicles for our troops .  it includes money to purchase bomb-jamming devices to protect our troops from roadside bombs .  i also support the improved life insurance death benefits for military personnel and their families .  and , i am hopeful that the additional funds that are in the bill to train and equip security forces in iraq all afghanistan will be expeditious and well spent .  this money is critical if afghan and iraqi forces are to take over security duties from american troops , which will allow our men and women to finally come home .  i have called for negotiating a timeline for the withdrawal of american troops with the new iraqi government , hopefully to be completed within the year .  but , for that to become a reality , well-equipped and competent security forces in iraq and afghanistan must be prepared to take our place .  this bill will help achieve that goal .  i am also pleased that the final bill retained language inserted in the senate directing the president to include future requests to fund the u.s. presence in iraq in his regular budget .  we have been in iraq for more than two years and in afghanistan for more than three years .  the fact that we still have troops in iraq should not come as a surprise to the budget writers at the white house and the pentagon .  it is not appropriate to continue funding these long-term , ongoing operations via supplemental appropriations bills , which are considered outside of the normal budget procedures and restrictions .  while i support the bill , i am outraged that , more than two years after the u. s. invaded iraq , the pentagon leadership has not gotten their act together to adequately protect our troops and to come up with a plan to get them home .  as columnist mark shields pointed out late last year , in the three years immediately after pearl harbor , the united states produced the following to win world war ii : 296 , 429 aircraft , 102 , 3351 tanks , 87 , 620 warships , and 2 , 455 , 694 trucks .  at the time , the u.s. population was 132 million and the size of our economy was less than $ 100 billion .  yet , approaching three years into the u.s. occupation of iraq , the united states , with a population of almost 300 million and defense spending of $ 500 billion a year , under the failed leadership of the pentagon , only 6 , 000 of the nearly 20 , 000 humvees in iraq are factory armored versions and more than 8 , 000 of the 9 , 128 medium and heavy trucks used in iraq are without armor .  despite repeated promises from the pentagon leadership that the situation is getting better , a recent article in the new york times showed that the emperor has no clothes .  as the article details , one marine company has returned home to expose the reality of their tour in iraq , `` one they say was punctuated not only by a lack of armor , but also by a shortage of men and planning that further hampered their efforts in battle , destroyed morale and ruined the careers of some of their most competent warriors. '' i have heard similar stories from the oregon national guard members i have talked to .  how did this happen ?  since the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks against our country ; congress has provided the pentagon with $ 1.6 trillion -- $ 167 billion in supplemental appropriations bills for fiscal years 2001-2005 ; and $ 1.45 trillion in regular defense appropriations for fiscal years 2002-2005 .  today 's bill will add $ 75 billion or so to the pentagon budget .  given that level of funding , it is hard to understand why our troops continue to suffer shortages of critical equipment .  it is hard to understand until you remember that secretary rumsfeld and the other civilian leaders at the pentagon argued that our troops would be greeted in iraq as liberators with flowers and candy , not the bullets and bombs that have led to more than 1 , 500 of our soldiers getting killed .  before , the invasion , the pentagon planned to reduce our troop levels to 20 , 000-30 , 000 within a few weeks of overthrowing saddam hussein .  the fact that 150 , 000 u.s. troops remain in iraq more than a year and a half after the war began shows how badly the pentagon leadership miscalculated the post-war situation .  those miscalculations also led the pentagon to vastly underestimate the equipment that our troops would need to survive and succeed in iraq .  first , the pentagon leadership did not even order the necessary equipment like body armor , armored humvees and bomb jamming devices .  for example , under the pentagon 's original war plan , the pentagon planned to have only 235 armored humvees in iraq for the 20 , 000 troops who would remain after overthrowing saddam hussein .  then , when it became clear that this equipment was necessary , the pentagon did not procure it with any sense of urgency .  as the new york times article i mentioned above noted , `` the army 's procurement system , which also supplies the marines , has come under fierce criticism for underperforming in the war , and to this day it has only one small contractor in ohio armoring new humvees. '' the performance of secretary rumsfeld and his senior leadership at the pentagon has been a disgrace .  unfortunately , it is our troops who have had to pay the price .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished whip , the gentleman from maryland , for yielding to me .  mr. speaker , the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on those measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on wednesday and thursday , the house will convene at 10 a.m .  we likely will consider additional legislation under suspension of the rules , as well as h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  finally , i would like to remind members that we do not plan , do not plan , to have votes next friday , february 11 .  that is correct .  that is correct .  we are contemplating several major pieces of legislation that we would hope to complete before the easter break , and we are also contemplating several bills that we contemplate completing prior to the presidents ' day district work period .  the comprehensive energy bill , which we passed in the last congress and in the 107th congress , is a very high priority for this year .  there is a good chance that we could consider a national energy policy bill before the presidents ' day district work period .  well , mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , i would just say that the gentleman is right .  we will try our best to reach out and make this bill as bipartisan as possible .  i would just remind the gentleman that this bill , this energy package , has passed , i can not recall every time , but many times in the last congress ; and it even passed this house as a conference report .  each time that the energy bill has gone through this house , whether it be the house bill or in the conference report , it has enjoyed a very large democrat vote .  so , yes , i would hope that the chairmen of the respective committees that have a piece of this bill , and i would also remind the gentleman that the committee on ways and means has a very big piece of this bill , would reach out to their ranking members and work to put together as bipartisan a bill as possible .  i appreciate the gentleman yielding to me , mr. speaker .  we have not discussed any rule .  actually , we are discussing with the relevant committee chairmen whether we can get it that quickly or not .  but i would imagine that the committee on rules would have the same sort of rule that we have had on this bill for the last couple of years .  so i would not see anything changing .  mr. chairman , i would just say to my good friend from texas ( mr. reyes )  , who is an expert , and we all value his input , we are going to do immigration reform in this congress .  we are looking forward to working with him on immigration reform .  but what we are here today about is border security , border security and closing loopholes .  i just want to thank both sides of the aisle for the thoughtful way that they have conducted this debate .  i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) and the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) and the gentleman from california ( chairman cox ) for their hard work in getting this bill to the floor so early in the new session .  of all of the issues being debated before us today , the controversy i find most confusing is the section regarding the standardization of driver 's licenses .  after all , mr. chairman , the war on terror is not being fought in a vacuum .  there was a time , to be sure , when identification fraud was a matter of concern principally to bouncers and bartenders , but that was before september 11 , 2001 .  since that day , mr. chairman , id fraud has represented a clear and present danger to the national security of the united states , plain and simple .  without standards for the issuance or content of driver 's licenses , the american people are needlessly put at risk .  as long as america boasts the civilized world 's most open laws concerning immigration and mobility while remaining its greatest terrorist target , we must ensure that people coming in and out of our country are not here to do our people harm .  when someone enters this country and can get a driver 's license , he can board a plane , open a bank account , and get a job .  if he plans to do these things not to make a better life for himself , but with the express intent of killing americans , and that treachery could be curbed simply by reforming the way we issue driver 's licenses , how can we not ?  the real id act requires that applicants for driver 's licenses prove that they are in the united states legally , very simple , and that a foreign traveler 's license expires with his visa .  these are hardly draconian measures , mr. chairman , nor are the sections of the bill that strengthen our deportation and asylum processes .  these processes are not just loopholes ; they are gaping , yawning chasms in the law waiting to be exploited .  they are risks , threats even , to the security of our homeland and to our success in the war on terror .  the reforms in the real id act are overdue , no less an authority than the 9/11 commission itself says so .  so i just urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation to further help ensure that such events as three septembers ago never again scar our homeland .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the war supplemental appropriations act but must voice my incredible misgivings for what the republican majority has attached to legislation that should solely be about how we provide for our brave men and women in harm 's way in iraq and afghanistan .  there is much in this bill to be proud of .  our military , despite the job of the civilian brass and this congress , have been performing heroically .  they have accomplished much more than we could have ever hoped for , and if any fault needs to be assigned it is to the policy makers , and not to those in uniform .  however , i am ashamed that this body has taken something as important as securing our troops , and attached a hastily considered immigration provision that will result in massive unfunded mandates being passed on to our states .  i am ashamed that the conference committee removed language that would have created a truman-style commission to examine war profiteering , largely to ensure that this administration would not be embarrassed .  finally , i am ashamed that this congress has turned its back on a promise made by our president to the palestinian authority to help improve the situation of the palestinian people and further the cause of peace for all in the middle east .  i am concerned that the immigration provisions will force our great nation to turn our back on the thousands of political and human rights asylum seekers who look toward america as their last and best hope .  the real id act will force the most vulnerable to have their torturers corroborate their tales of persecution .  i understand that we must protect our borders , and i understand that changes must be made to keep out those that seek to do us harm .  but we should not hastily foreclose the dream and promise of america because of fear .  we should not send back asylum seekers back to their torturers .  under these standards , iraqis seeking to escape the rape rooms of saddam hussein would have been sent back to the ba'athist prisons if they fled iraq without the proper documentation .  i am also dismayed that rather than seeking to be responsible stewards of the public 's trust , the republican majority in charge of congress once again decided to ignore its oversight responsibilities .  it seems that rather than doing our oversight job as a separate and equal branch of government , the gop leadership would rather save the bush administration and corporate ceos some embarrassment .  i am old enough to remember the truman commission .  i remember that sen .  truman went against a democratic administration , and saved our military and our tax payers billions of dollars in waste and fraud .  i can not understand why we do not do the same .  my friends on the other side of the aisle should be ashamed of the fact that mr. waxman  and i have probably done more on this front from the minority , than has anyone with a gavel .  reconstructing iraq and afghanistan is too important not to get it right , but confronted yet again with evidence of massive fraud and egregious war profiteering , my republican colleagues are again choosing to bury their heads in the sand , plug their ears , and turn out the lights on our duty .  finally , this bill , by intention or not , has the potential of undoing all the progress that the middle east peace process has made since the death of yasser arafat .  mr. speaker , the new president of the palestinian authority is in an almost untenable position .  in order for palestinian democracy to succeed over radical terrorism , president abbas must be provided with the resources to open hospitals , create jobs , arm a police force , build jails , and take the fight to the terrorists .  president bush recognized this .  he made a statement asking for $ 200 million to support a nascent middle eastern democracy .  instead of allowing president abbas to use american aid to build his security forces to take on terror , we instead set him up for failure .  my friends , if you want to see hamas win the upcoming municipal elections ; if you want to see the peace process come to an abject halt ; if you want to see more dead young israelis and young palestinians you should support this language .  it surprises me that the only thing that this congress is capable of bucking and embarrassing this administration on is the prospect of peace .  i hope , for the sake of peace , we can correct this colossal error in judgment and that the president and the state department speak out against congress ' ill-advised policy making on this most tragic conflict .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , the real id act is a real travesty .  it has little to do with homeland security , and it represents just the latest in a string of anti-immigrant proposals so unfortunately popular with certain of our republican colleagues .  instead of putting the safety of our families first , these are the same folks that would have turned our emergency room doctors into border patrol agents ; who would have cut the funding to cities that did not conduct immigration raids ; and who would interfere with the people with whom our private banking institutions could serve and encourage instead an underground , black market financial system .  this same anti-immigrant fervor continues to fuel this bad bill .  the real id act is designed to make our roads real unsafe .  undocumented workers will be on our roads .  that is why the austin police department believes that texans would be safer if the law allowed all drivers to obtain licenses .  as assistant police chief rudy landeros testified , `` in allowing the community the opportunity to obtain driver 's licenses , they will have to pass a driver 's test , and that will make them not only informed drivers , but safer drivers. '' the texas legislature , in a bill by former representative miguel wise , wisely recognized that requiring all drivers to obtain licenses would make texas families safer .  had it not been for the veto by texas 's myopic governor , this common-sense call for public safety would be the law in the president 's home state .  legal immigrants could also be denied a license .  paula waddle , an immigration attorney in the rio grande valley , explained that her clients are having delays of as much as 15 months in getting their legal permanent residency papers because of confusion at the department of homeland security .  if these legal immigrants do not have sufficient paperwork to prove their legal status , they will be caught up in this same web of anti-immigrant fervor and denied the opportunity to obtain insurance and drive .  ironically , consideration of this bill coincides with the release this week by the u.s. commission on international religious freedom .  this proposal would worsen the plight of those whose conditions were the subject of investigation by that commission : asylum-seekers who already face deplorable conditions , who are often treated like common criminals and thrown into jail with common criminals , and who are subject to strip searches as well as solitary confinement .  but since current law already bars those who presnet a secruity risk from getting asylum , the additional restrictions in this bill would not make us safer .  we must not sacrifice our democracy in a misguided attempt to save it .  this bill strikes the wrong balance .  anti-immigrant hysteria can not be permitted to drive an agenda that makes us less safe , less healthy , and erodes our civil liberties while failing to address real terrorist threats .  the real id bill ought to be really rejected fast by this congress .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule , which will simply allow us to consider general debate , and in 7 minutes we are going to be up in the committee on rules considering a number of those issues that the gentleman from florida just raised , deciding what it is that we will debate here on the house floor tomorrow .  so the process is still ongoing and members are involved in that , and it is one that we look forward to considering before too long .  i want to congratulate the gentleman from dallas , texas ( mr. sessions )  for his very strong commitment to all homeland security issues , a top priority .  and i will say , mr. speaker , that border security is a critically important aspect of the number one priority that we have at the federal level .  the five most important words in the middle of the preamble of the u.s. constitution are `` provide for the common defense , '' and securing our borders is a priority , and it should be of any sovereign nation .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and i had the privilege of serving as conferees last fall as we sought to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  unfortunately , our friends in the other body decided not to include provisions that would provide guidelines to ensure that the likes of mohammed atta who flew a plane into the world trade center just days before he was to appear in court because of a traffic violation that he had had with a driver 's license , that was something that we felt strongly should have been incorporated to rectify that in the 9/11 commission recommendations .  unfortunately , our colleagues in the other body chose to ignore that .  the gentleman from california ( mr. ose ) worked hard to ensure that we would be able to complete the 3 1/2 -mile gap through what is known as smugglers gulch , an area that is today devastated environmentally because people cross the border illegally .  unfortunately , our colleagues in the other body refused to accept that .  both of those things were issues that were of concern to the 9/11 commission ; and if we look at the 9/11 commission report , they make it very clear that we need to address these kinds of issues as they relate to border security .  so what we decided , of course , at the end , as we prepare to implement that , was that we would , as soon as the 109th congress convened , proceed with passage of this very important aspect of our border security and , by virtue of that , our national security .  that is why i think this measure should enjoy strong bipartisan support .  this is an issue that democrats and republicans alike can come together on to ensure that we do , we do , secure our borders .  so i think that we have a wonderful opportunity here to deal with border security .  the issue of immigration reform is another question .  i am supporting this effort on border security in part because i am convinced that we will be able to , down the road and i hope soon , address the immigration reform question .  i happen to believe that it is important for us to identify the people who are here in this country illegally .  and , yes , i am opposed to granting blanket amnesty , as is president bush , but i do believe that moving in the direction of some sort of worker program is something that we must look at and must address .  but we are taking a proper step in finally doing what we wanted to have incorporated in the 9/11 commission package that we passed out of here , and i congratulate all my colleagues who have been involved in this .  mr. chairman , as someone who for the past 2 years has represented over 40 , 000 soldiers at fort hood , texas , who have fought for our country in iraq , i am deeply appreciative of the expeditious manner in which the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) , and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  have worked together to pass this important piece of legislation .  this bill sends a very clear message to our troops in harm 's way that while americans may have differences of opinion about the iraqi war , the fact is that we are all unified when it comes to seeing that our troops in harm 's way have all of the support that they need and deserve to do their mission and to come home safely to their families .  in the area of responsibility for the subcommittee on which i serve under the committee on appropriations , the military quality of life and veterans affairs , and related agencies subcommittee , i wholeheartedly support the language and funding in this bill .  under our subcommittee is $ 3.1 billion in funding , $ 175 million of which goes to the department of defense health care system to deal with the direct increased costs for health care for our wounded troops coming home ; $ 1.5 billion to pay for housing allowance for our guard and reserve soldiers and their families ; and $ 1.3 billion in military construction needed in iraq and afghanistan and throughout our country to support our war against terrorism .  i enthusiastically and wholeheartedly support this bill .  i do want , mr. chairman , to express one concern .  the fact is that as of the end of december of last year , there have been 48 , 000 american troops coming home who have needed health care from the veterans administration health care system .  while we put $ 175 million in the dod part of this budget to take care of extra dod health care costs , there is not a dime in this supplemental appropriation bill to help the veterans administration deal with the cost of dealing with 48 , 000 and still counting troops who have needed va health care .  using the va secretary 's own testimony before our subcommittee last week , the average cost mathematically is $ 6 , 200 for treatment for each veteran within the va health care system .  multiply that number by the 48 , 000 troops coming back from iraq and afghanistan , and we are talking about an additional $ 302 million of cost to the va health care system to help provide needed care for these deserving patriots .  i do not think that money ought to come out of the hide of va health care services to other veterans , and i do not think we should cut corners in terms of quality of care for iraqi and afghanistan war veterans once they have left the department of defense system and gone into the va system .  in committee we heard some say the va is flush with money .  i have looked into that statement , and the fact is that the va is presently laying off hundreds of employees in the va medical system and taking money out of their equipment accounts to fund their personnel accounts .  during time of war and in the spirit of this bill supporting our troops not only when they are in the combat zone but when they return home , i think in that spirit we ought to , as this bill goes to conference committee , look specifically at what additional needs the va health care system needs , provide the quality medical care that these troops need .  if the war is worth fighting , certainly it is worth paying for and it is worth supporting those troops even after they have left the military and continue to pay the mental and physical price for decades for having stood up for our country .  so i would like to urge the committee chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  , and the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  to work together with us on a bipartisan basis to see that we can add the needed money for the va health care system , to see that we do not shortchange these great americans who have risked their lives for our country .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the bill , although i am disgusted with the anti-immigration provisions in it , particularly the things with the driver 's licenses .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this supplemental appropriations bill , but not without very serious misgivings .  i will vote for this legislation because it contains support for our troops in the field and important tsunami relief .  with american soldiers in harm 's way , i am very reluctant to vote against funding of military operations .  and , having personally seen the devastation in the wake of the tsunami in indonesia , i feel that aid to the victims is critical .  nevertheless , i am disgusted by the process by which this legislation came to the floor and by the immigration-related provisions in the bill .  this is an appropriations bill .  it is not the place to write new immigration law or to include seriously flawed driver 's license provisions .  the republicans are clamoring in the senate about the lack of up or down votes on judges and , today , they denied the house not only an up or down vote on the so-called `` real id '' act , but even a real debate on this issue .  the immigration sections are seriously flawed .  they impose onerous restrictions on foreign nationals in the u.s. , not to mention upon american citizens , and slap a massive unfunded mandate upon the states .  shortly after this legislation takes effect , i can only imagine that , instead of more licensed drivers on the roads , there will be less .  instead of safer roads , we will have more reckless drivers operating completely outside of our laws .  america is a nation of immigrants and our strength is in our diversity .  we are founded upon the people who have come from all corners of the globe and are continually enriched by the unique strengths that they add to our national mosaic .  we must not undermine the careful balance our nation has struck .  i , therefore , strongly oppose these id and immigration-related sections and pledge to fight hard in the future to remove the offensive provisions from the law .  in the end , as a legislator , i must vote on the bill in front of me , and in this instance i must vote for the vital funding contained in this bill .  but , mr. speaker , please know that i will work hard in the day ahead to strike the dangerously flawed sections from the code .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 418 .  although i support the goals of this legislation , h.r. 418 unfortunately contains too many misguided provisions .  last year , i voted to pass the 9/11 commission 's bipartisan recommendations to reform identification standards and beef up security on our nation 's border .  this legislation would repeal that new law before it has a chance to work .  had the provisions of h.r. 418 been in place prior to september 11 , 2001 , they would not have stopped a single one of the 19 terrorists .  h.r. 418 would force virtually every adult in the united states to go to the dmv to get a new driver 's license , and with 14 , 000 local jurisdictions in this country currently issuing identification , it would be impossible to impose a single standard within in the three-year limit in the bill .  i will also vote to remove provisions mr. chairman , it has never been done before , waiving all labor laws , all contract laws , all small business laws , all laws relating to sacred places .  it is a broad sweep , just a total repeal of all of those laws or a waiver of all those laws .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , how much time do we have remaining ?  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to the emergency supplemental appropriations ( hr 1268 ) , on substance and process .  i am strongly supportive of our fighting men and women , and mourn the loss of nearly 1 , 600 americans who have died in iraq , four of whom resided in my congressional district .  on substance , this bill fails to provide an exit strategy for our troops in iraq .  since iraq held democratic elections in january , the us should have been implementing an aggressive exit strategy that includes a timetable for the training of iraqi security forces , so us troops can return home .  moreover , with nearly $ 10 billion already appropriated but not spent for critical reconstruction projects in iraq , like rebuilding electrical grids and establishing telecommunications networks , us policy objectives for iraqi independence are jeopardized .  on process , many of the items in this bill should be funded under the regular order in the annual appropriations cycle .  unfortunately , the republican leadership has used this bill as a vehicle for passage of immigration measures that are divisive and harmful for our country , and could n't be passed as stand-alone bills .  provisions commonly known as the `` real id act '' regarding national driver 's license standards , asylum law and completion of a southern border fence have been controversial from day one , but were added to appease a vocal minority of anti-immigrant advocates .  i and many others in congress would like to have a rational debate on immigration reform , but we are denied the opportunity when the leadership attaches non-germane immigration measures to a funding bill .  to better demonstrate how the process has been hijacked by a minority of the majority , many of the same provisions that constitute the real id provisions in the supplemental being considered today were stripped from the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act ( pl 108-458 ) in conference because of their extreme nature .  one of the most egregious provisions in the real id section of the supplemental is the blanket authority given to the secretary of homeland security to expedite construction of the remaining three miles of the southern border fence in san diego .  all americans should be concerned that the dhs secretary has carte blanche authority to waive any and all laws in the name of border security .  this provision is a dangerous attack against the civil rights of all americans , when any law can be waived under the guise of border security .  blanket authority to complete the three mile border fence is especially `` in your face '' politics when , under current law , the dhs secretary already has a national security waiver for the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act .  we must work harder to strike a balance between our national security and environmental protection , not simply ignore environmental laws .  furthermore , the driver 's license provisions of this bill touted in the name of national security are equally concerning .  it is indeed ironic that these provisions would not have stopped the 9/11 hijackers from obtaining driver 's licenses .  the breach of our border security was a result of the hijackers having been issued legal visas to enter the us , which many of them used to apply for driver 's licenses and identification cards .  even if the real id provisions had been in place before the 9/11 attacks , the hijackers still would have been able to obtain a driver 's license or state-issued id .  again , a minority of the majority is playing on the fears of this nation to enact a flawed policy that does not actually address the problem it purports to fix .  for the record , i do not support illegal immigration , but i do support a regulated process for immigrants who enter the us legally , pay their taxes and play by the rules to earn us citizenship .  no one can deny that comprehensive immigration reform is a topic on the minds of our constituents -- but such a critical policy debate should be conducted on its own merits .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and all of those on the republican side who are so concerned about my district .  i represent the california border between mexico and the united states .  this so-called fence that you want to put in my district is really a giant public works project that does enormous harm .  i wish you were equally concerned about the 50 million gallons of sewage that flows into my district that we should be treating .  i wish you were concerned about the legal border crossings , that take four or five hours some days .  i wish you would be concerned about my local health facilities who treat the undocumented and refund those dollars .  but , no , you want to put a public works project in that waives all existing environmental laws necessary to ensure the construction of roads , barriers , cut and fills , taking down mountains .  this would result in an enormous waste of millions of federal and state dollars that have already been contributed to restore and protect this area in san diego , its historical , its cultural , its environmental resources .  ironically , the united nations ramsar convention recently bestowed the prestigious label of `` wetlands of international importance '' on this 2 , 500-acre national wildlife refuge and state park that you are going to destroy .  now , we know we have to have border security .  we live right there .  you think we want to be overrun with terrorists ?  we know what it takes .  we know what a smart border is .  and what you are suggesting is not a smart border .  for a minimal security benefit and maximum dollars spent , you will do irreparable damage to areas along the western portion of the u.s.-mexico border .  this multitiered fence , road building , cut and fill , shaving down of mountains will destroy , as i said , an environmentally sensitive area , violate several sections of the coastal act and destroy acres of sensitive habitat and wetlands and coastline .  this sensitive habitat plays a vital role in the sustainability of the binational ecosystem .  vote down this bill .  madam chairman , i understand what the chairman is saying .  i have been around here long enough .  i do not have confidence in that regular order .  i know what is going to happen then .  then we will be accused of legislating on appropriations or some other rule will be brought up .  so i do not accept the ruling .  i intend to challenge the ruling , and i think we owe this to our veterans .  mr. speaker , let me reiterate what i said about nitpicking and arcane rules .  this whole bill is a violation of the rules of the house except for the fact that it says in the bill it does not violate the rules .  so telling us that we should have respect for the rules , my colleagues ought to show some respect for the good sense of the american people , for common sense .  this whole bill is a violation of the rules without a waiver .  is that not true , mr. chairman ?  would this bill be a violation of the rules if there was not a waiver involved in the rules ?  as i said , the rules are being used to damage common sense and to damage our nation 's security and damage our health care to our veterans .  i think it is a disgrace to use those rules for these purposes .  of course .  la jolla .  no , it is not .  mr. chairman , in last year 's appropriation bill , that hospital was awarded close to $ 100 million for seismic refitting , retrofitting for earthquake safety .  yes , sir .  mr. chairman , yes , in last year 's appropriation bill , la jolla medical center was one of a variety of hospitals , i think about two dozen .  many times .  yes , sir .  mr. chairman , whatever the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) suggests , i would consider .  mr. chairman , if the gentleman would continue to yield , look , everybody wants efficiencies in this system ; but i will say , for a paralyzed veteran with a spinal cord injury , there is no better place than the va to get care .  to keep that quality of care for those veterans requires investment in our system .  we are all looking for efficiencies but i will tell you there is no independent person , including the va .  mr. chairman , the gentleman asked me a question .  including the va that says that we have enough money .  the va says we do not have enough money ... ... .  mr. chairman , i wish to be heard on the point of order .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the real id act , and i thank the chairman for his courage and hard work on this vital measure .  over a decade ago , the ability of ramzi yousef , the mastermind behind the 1993 world trade center bombing to be granted asylum and to move freely in the country should have signaled that something was terribly wrong with our system .  it did not , and 8 years later , 19 terrorists collectively carrying a total of 63 valid u.s. driver 's licenses , boarded planes to finish yousef 's work .  it is now over 3 years since that tragic september 11th .  today , we are considering a vital piece of legislation to address three key failures of current security policy .  first , the real id act mandates standards to obtain driver 's licenses ; second , it tightens our nation 's asylum laws , which easily allow suspected terrorists into our nation ; and finally , it addresses the need to secure our borders .  these concepts are not rocket science .  the need for these reforms has been reiterated over and over , and in expert testimony , in anecdotal evidence from security professionals , in scholarly research and in evidence presented from our nation 's justice and military personnel .  but the fact of the matter is , the most compelling reason to pass this bill is just plain old common sense .  we can not repeat enough what the 9/11 commission said : `` for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons. '' they are right .  they also said , `` it is elemental to border security to know who is coming into the country. '' today , more than 9 million people have entered the united states outside the legal immigration system .  the security chain protecting america is only as good as its weakest link .  it does not take a congressman or a national security expert to tell you this .  most americans know that despite the rhetoric we hear against this bill , as long as we ignore the need for border security , we place them and their families at risk .  i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the real id act .  mr. speaker , does the gentleman really believe that 20 minutes of debate , 10 on each side , on these complicated issues , is free and flowing debate ?  we got out early yesterday ; we are here today .  why only 10 minutes of debate on each side on these complicated issues ?  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 1268 making supplemental appropriations to ensure that our forces who are hard at work in iraq and afghanistan , and elsewhere , have the tools they need to do their job , and are well protected .  mr. speaker , this week we witnessed the establishment of iraq 's first democratically elected government in over half a century and their swearing in .  this event is yet another historic milestone in iraq 's progress toward a representative and transparent government .  but even as we see important movement toward democracy , we are reminded that `` freedom is not free. '' as those of us who have seen war know , it is paid first by the sacrifices of those who serve .  their courage is our inspiration .  we wish them godspeed , swift victory and safe return .  however , while it pales in comparison to the sacrifices of our brave men and women in the field , there is another part of the equation .  and it is before us today .  with this legislation , congress is acting decisively to ensure that our soldiers , sailors and airmen have the resources they need to keep iraq on the road back to the community of civilized nations .  this bill contains over $ 76 billion to support military activities .  this sum will : pay for the troop deployment ; repair and replace damaged vehicles being chewed up in an extreme harshly operating environment ; replenish stores of munitions and supplies ; and provide additional armor for vehicles , improved communications gear and more night-vision equipment .  i would also add that this bill also provides over $ 60 million for additional electronic devices designed to protect our forces from the `` weapon of choice '' of the insurgents -- ieds .  mr. speaker , this `` wartime supplemental '' appropriations bill meets our military , humanitarian and foreign policy requirements .  we have every reason to be proud of young men and women at war .  every single word of praise uttered on this floor today is justified .  but while our young men and women in uniform appreciate our vocal support , they need this bill .  it will provide them with the tools they need to get their job done as quickly as possible so they can return home to their families .  i commend mr. lewis , the chairman of the appropriations committee -- the gentleman from california -- for his leadership .  and i urge passage of the legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time .  mr. speaker , i want to thank both the chairman and the ranking member for this bill , especially for its iraqi dollars , because this bill analyzes microscopically the kinds of equipment that is needed there now , and then surgically targets those dollars in a vastly efficient manner for our troops .  the bill also deals with healing the wounds of both mind and body of those soldiers who are returning .  the bill also deals with small businesses being able , through the h-2b process , to hire legal workers .  and the bill also deals with enhanced technology for the tsunami situation that we saw so much , months ago .  i want to thank the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  for the legislation , and i urge its adoption .  mr. speaker , i would like to address the $ 17 million included in the supplemental that we are considering today , which will support the expansion of the u.s. tsunami warning network .  these funds will help noaa to procure and deploy tsunami detection buoys in a system designed to provide continuous tsunami warning capability for both the pacific and atlantic coasts of the united states .  detection is a critical part of a warning system which i hope will ultimately include a comprehensive approach to educating communities about , and preparing them for , tsunamis .  comprising 70 percent of the earth 's surface area , our oceans support a growing source of protein for many developing countries , promising sources of medicines , and efficient transport of goods between continents and among nations .  they also strongly influence our climate and weather and provide economic and unmeasurable quality of life benefits .  for proof of this , one only needs to know that the u.s. coasts support over 50 percent of the u.s. population and comprise only 17 percent of our land base .  when south asia was struck by tsunami waves on december 26 , the world 's interest in tsunami detection and warning systems was heightened .  the impact of these waves was felt around the world , and the tragedy of its immediate effect on indian ocean coastlines has painfully exposed our lack of ability to provide early warning and coastal community education and support .  many lifelong residents of indian ocean coastal towns fear the sea -- the primary source of their livelihoods for generations .  it is critical that individuals in high-risk areas are educated about and prepared for tsunamis before they strike .  coastal communities need assurance that technology exists and will be applied to increase warnings for such events and to prepare them for evacuation to avoid catastrophic loss of human life .  in contrast , developed nations use increasing technological sophistication to acquire from the sea its bounty -- with little thought for the long-term sustainability of this activity .  in time , without increased understanding of our ocean ecosystems and the impact of our harvest and extraction of its resources , developed nations may also come to fear the sea .  the antidote to the disease of fear is understanding .  new technologies have already led to enormous advances in our understanding of the coastal and marine environment .  however , advanced sensors have been deployed only on relatively small scales , and the systems that are deployed have not been coordinated into an integrated system that will optimize our understanding of the oceans .  since the u.s. hosted the earth observation summit in july 2003 , we have been working with our partner nations to adopt a comprehensive , coordinated and sustained earth observation system to collect and disseminate data , information and models for more effective and responsible use of our resources as well as to inform decision-makers about impending disasters .  most recently , the u.s. commission on ocean policy made an integrated ocean observing system a top recommendation in its report , an ocean blueprint for the 21st century .  our space exploration and our weather programs show that when our scientists and the nation support a program and devote time , money and , most importantly , the human mind into these types of endeavors we are highly successful .  the ocean , however , is often referred to as the last frontier , a place where we continue to find new organisms and species and where we still struggle to understand the profound implications for climate changes and more direct impacts of the oceans on our human habitats .  there is perhaps no more motivating event , no louder a voice for attention and understanding than having the ocean engulf human habitats .  our failure to fully develop and utilize our technology to understand our oceans has many more implications , including the potential for permanent damage to fragile and complex ecosystems that have generously provided us with food , medicines , recreation , and other benefits .  we are now awake to the power of the ocean , and it is my hope that we will use this opportunity to move more quickly toward integrated data collection and dissemination systems , as well as intensive education of coastal communities , to ensure that we and future generations can look to the sea for inspiration , sustenance , and life-giving support .  i strongly support the inclusion of these funds to increase global monitoring capacity and public awareness about tsunamis and other disasters , particularly if they add to capacity of ocean monitoring as part of the global earth observation system of systems ( geoss ) .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague on the committee on rules .  i rise in full support of the rule and the underlying bill .  i remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , who keep saying , we are not given enough time and we are rushing all of these complicated issues that we have not discussed , but these provisions i remind my colleagues , they were in the original bill that we passed on the house side , the intel bill .  unfortunately , they were taken out by the senate conferees .  we are asking to do the things that the 9/11 commission , all 10 of them , in their unanimous report , asked us to do .  listen to this : `` if terrorist travel options are reduced , they may be forced to rely on means of interaction which can be more easily monitored and to resort to travel documents which are more readily detectable. '' the 9/11 commission report , page 65 , `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of united states identification document , some by fraud. '' acquisition of these forms of identification would have assisted them in boarding commercial flights , renting cars , and other necessary activities .  the 9/11 commission report , page 390 , `` my daughter worked at the republican convention this summer .  i worried about her .  unbeknownst to me , during the convention an illegal alien from pakistan was picked up and arrested for attempting to bomb the herald square subway station .  she rode on that subway every day going back and forth to work. '' he was quoted as saying , `` i want at least 1 , 000 to 2 , 000 to die in a single day. '' and that alien had applied for asylum .  mr. speaker , these are sensible provisions .  we are completing the work of the intel bill , and i support it .  we need to get it done and we need bipartisan support .  mr. speaker , i am not on the committee on the judiciary .  mr. speaker , i wanted to come to the floor today to speak in favor of reforming our system for asylum and against the move to strike the necessary reforms incorporated in h.r. 418 .  it has been suggested throughout out this debate yesterday and today that because there is no specific recommendation made by the 9-11 commission to reform our asylum system that we in congress should do nothing to fix it .  that in my opinion is insane .  my colleagues and friends on the other side of the isle suggest we stick our heads in the sand and ignore one of the tools used by terrorists to gain access to and remain in our country .  make no mistake , the 9-11 commission report does specifically state that our asylum system was and is used by terrorists to carry out their schemes to kill americans .  let me quote from the report and its accompanying statements : the report states , speaking of the first trade center bombing , `` ... ..ramazi yousef , who had also entered with fraudulent documents but claimed political asylum and was admitted .  it quickly became clear that yousef had been a central player in the attack .  he had fled to pakistan immediately after the bombing and would remain at large for nearly two years. '' later in the report it talks about the outdated immigration benefits system , `` ... ..when doris meissner became ins commissioner in 1993 , she found ... ..  the asylum and other benefits systems did not effectively deter fraudulent applicants .  finally , `` terrorists in the 1990s , as well as the september 11 hijackers , needed to find a way to stay in or embed themselves in the united states if their operational plans were to come to fruition. '' `` this could be accomplished ... ..  by applying for asylum after entering .  in many cases , the act of filing for an immigration benefit ( such as claiming asylum ) sufficed to permit the alien to remain in the country until the petition was adjudicated .  terrorists were free to conduct surveillance , coordinate operations , obtain and receive funding , go to school and learn english , make contacts in the united states , acquire necessary materials , and execute an attack. '' so , if i am to understand my friends on the other side , we are to ignore the problem of asylum abuse and do nothing .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 .  the first thing is america will not sleep any more securely with the passage of this piece of legislation , as well intended as it may be , because i am not going to question the motives of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle .  but why do a useless thing ?  why would the state legislatures , why would the state governors , why would every latino advocacy group come against this ?  why would the national council of bishops here in the states come out against this ?  it is for various reasons .  but they all acknowledge that there is not a conspiracy going on here to thwart the efforts at security by these groups .  no one would accuse these individuals of that , because this does not do anything .  it only burdens the state and does not get us anywhere .  but more importantly , and i really believe this , this is an anti-immigrant bill in the guise of some sort of security consideration , which it does not further .  and so we ask , who are these immigrants ?  i have a simple answer for all of us .  look in the mirror .  that is who we are talking about .  we all got here one way or another , some earlier than others .  we are all immigrants .  what this bill is really about is not bad people coming into this country to do bad things to this country .  it is about preventing good people coming into this country to do good things .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  i supported the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act last december .  that legislation helped to streamline the intelligence community and tightened some asylum rules that allowed potential terrorists to remain in our country .  that was a good bill , but it did not go far enough .  so i am pleased that the house is debating h.r. 418 -- a bill that i believe will continue to strengthen our borders , further improve identification standards , and close even more asylum loopholes .  we know that mohamed atta and his gang of terrorists exploited weak identification rules , and , as stated in the 9/11 commission report , `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of identification document , some by fraud. '' h.r. 418 will require that federal agencies only accept licenses and state-issued id cards when states have determined that the holder is lawfully present in the country .  the bill will also require that temporary visitors to our country receive only temporary identification , and that this identification expire when the terms of the visit expire .  mr. chairman , this only makes sense .  i am also pleased that this bill further reforms our asylum system , a system that has unfortunately been ripe for corruption for years .  we are also addressing the san diego border fence issue and will ensure the expeditious completion of the border fence .  further , the bill makes aliens deportable for terrorism-related offenses .  incredibly , current law provided that not all terrorism-related grounds for keeping an alien out of the country are also grounds for deportion .  this bill closes that loophole .  the simple fact is that we need to secure our borders .  today 's bill is another step toward this effort and i believe it will make our country safer .  i urge my colleagues to support the real id act .  mr. chairman , i come to the floor today to speak in support of the real id act .  it is clear that in order to secure our country from terrorists we need to reform the requirements and standards for driver 's licenses .  a valid driver 's license is like a hall pass that allows terrorists to easily roam throughout the united states .  indeed 19 terrorists did just that with dozens of legal driver 's licenses and identification cards .  the hijackers used these ids to rent cars and apartments , open bank accounts , take flying lessons , and otherwise blend into american society while they planned their attacks .  those terrorists murdered 3 , 000 americans and yet this gap still remains open .  in every state , the driver 's license ( and its counterpart , the state id card ) is the primary document used to establish identity and proof of legal residence .  making driver 's licenses accessible to illegal aliens gives them the means to pass themselves off as legal residents of the united states .  additionally , the real id act does not create a national id card .  in addition to establishing standards for the issuance of licenses , h.r. 418 includes provisions to prevent terrorists from gaming our asylum system .  court decisions in recent years have so distorted the asylum process that terrorists are now able to claim asylum specifically because they are terrorists .  this legislation represents a critical first step toward gaining control over our borders and protecting american lives .  these are common-sense measures that should be implemented immediately .  terrorism may have no borders , but we can certainly make it more difficult for terrorists to cross ours .  having a uniform policy that relies on common sense will do more to keep america open and free than having a policy that relies on hope .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word and enter into a brief colloquy with the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  .  mr. chairman , i believe it is important that all groups and organizations that want to assist in the recovery are allowed to participate .  the united states agency for international development issued a regulation on october 19 , 2004 , that ensures religious organizations are allowed to compete on an equal footing with other nongovernmental organizations for usaid funding , in the case of this bill , funding to help tsunami victims .  can the chairman clarify whether the appropriations under this bill fall under such regulation ?  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman .  i appreciate his response , and i am very pleased to know that faith-based groups will have the same opportunity to compete for these important dollars with other nongovernmental entities so that together this funding can be used to alleviate the suffering of the tsunami victims .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 418 .  i am deeply concerned about several aspects of this proposed legislation .  this legislation , if passed , would be a terrible setback with regards to three critical areas : defending the people of the united states from terrorism , due process for immigrants , and environmental protection .  the bill would undo security provisions that were passed just last year under the intelligence reform act .  families of september 11th victims stated the impact of this legislation will not make us safer from terrorism .  instead , it would prevent people from fleeing persecution , from obtaining relief , making our highways more dangerous and undermine our security .  section 102 of this bill would eliminate homeland security and border patrol 's responsibility to inform and involve communities in proposed construction projects along the entire u.s. border and the requirement to consider less harmful alternatives to proposed actions .  this would allow homeland security to operate in secrecy in critically important areas such as cabeza prieta and buenos aires national wildlife refuge and organ pipe national monument that are all in my district .  many of our most precious wildlife depend upon protected public lands along u.s. borderlands for migration corridors between countries .  in addition , this section would waive laws requiring consultations with native nations regarding activities on tribal lands , grave sites or archaeological and sacred sites .  finally , in a rush to deport anyone , h.r. 418 would deny due process for immigrants and asylum seekers .  this is un-american .  it is against what we stand for , and it is against what we are asking the world to replicate in democracy across this earth .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 418 .  the proponents of this dangerous and divisive bill have mischaracterized and misrepresented it as a measure that focuses on national security .  this could not be further from the truth .  i would urge my colleagues today to listen beyond the harsh rhetoric and to closely examine this legislation .  because further study will reveal that h.r. 418 is really nothing more than a bill designed to bash immigrants and punish refugees .  h.r. 418 ignores our nation 's proud history of protecting those fleeing brutal human rights abuses , torture and persecution .  it would force our country to turn its back on women , children , and victims of religious persecution .  the bill would create insurmountable hurdles for legitimate asylum-seekers and slam the door shut on refugees who have fled brutal human rights abuses .  that is not america .  h.r. 418 also ignores the reality that there are an estimated 10 million or more undocumented immigrants living in our country .  this bill would do nothing to prevent undocumented migration to the united states .  if anything , this bill will only further compound the flaws in our nation 's immigrations laws .  and it would make the job of protecting our homeland even more challenging .  h.r. 418 will make the vital job of law enforcement to arrest criminals and root out potential terrorists almost impossible .  in short , immigration enforcement will continue to expend their valuable , but limited , resources and energy in pursuing hardworking busboys and nannies , instead of bad actors who mean us real harm .  immigration officers represent our frontline forces in protecting our homeland .  let 's not make their jobs even more demanding .  let 's give them the policies , the resources and the tools they need to succeed .  mr. chairman , imagine your neighbors , the families who live across the street , the men and women who join us at church -- all of the hard working people who share the roads with us .  now imagine these hundreds of thousands , perhaps millions of people , driving without a license , without car insurance or registration .  such a policy will wreak havoc on our streets and highways .  it also will do nothing to address our broken immigration system .  it will just force hard working people further into the shadows and create an increased demand for the black market of fake identity documents .  i agree that congress must examine how to improve enforcement of immigration law , but we first must create laws that are enforceable and in step with reality .  let me close by saying this .  i am not alone in my strong opposition to this misguided and mean-spirited legislation .  also opposing the bill are the national governor 's association , the national council of state legislatures , many other national , state and local organizations , security and immigration policy experts , immigration attorneys , more than 100 religious organizations , hispanic and asian organizations , the u.n .  commissioner for refugees , the afl-cio , the service employees international union and other labor unions .  the list goes on and on , and i consider myself very good company .  mr. chairman , i strongly urge my colleagues to oppose this bill .  the only thing `` real '' about the real id act is that it is real bad for america .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague who ably serves on the permanent select committee on intelligence , as well as the committee on rules , for the time .  mr. speaker , as the lead conferee on the intelligence reform bill , i oppose the rule on h.r. 418 and the underlying bill because they will not make us safer .  what h.r. 418 will do is undermine several key provisions of the bipartisan intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , which congress passed and the president signed into law just 2 months ago .  those who claim that the so-called real id act will enhance national security are flat wrong .  remember , all of the september 11 hijackers entered this country with legal immigration documents .  legislation prohibiting illegal immigrants from obtaining driver 's licenses would not have stopped a single 9/11 hijacker .  we dealt with this issue responsibly in the intelligence reform legislation .  the law establishes tough minimum federal standards for driver 's licenses so that all driver 's licenses have certain key security features .  the law also requires the transportation security administration to set newer standards within 6 months for identification documents which may be used to board commercial airplanes .  these provisions are much stronger than what is being proposed by h.r. 418 , yet h.r. 418 would repeal these critical new security upgrades .  mr. speaker , i wholeheartedly agree that if we want to cut down on illegal immigration , we must improve border security .  just 2 weeks ago , an astute crane operator at the port of los angeles discovered 32 chinese stowaways in a container that had just been unloaded from a panamanian freighter .  the state of california already prohibits illegal immigrants from getting a driver 's license , but that did not discourage these stowaways from trying to sneak into california and the united states .  the people at our ports and our borders are our first line of defense .  that is why the intelligence reform bill included authorization for 10 , 000 new border guards , 40 , 000 new detention beds to hold people awaiting deportation , and 4 , 000 new immigration inspectors .  yet the president 's 2006 budget does not include funding for any of these new security improvements .  if we are going to serious about border security , we need more resources and more people at the border .  i urge my colleagues to retain the real id provisions in the intelligence reform bill and reject this imposter .  we already have the tools for securing driver 's licenses , and our borders that will truly make our country safer .  mr. speaker , the real id act completes the mission of the 9/11 commission recommendations by implementing common sense reforms to strengthen our borders security and better protect our homeland .  driver 's licenses have become the primary identification document in the united states , enabling individuals to get other identity documents , transfer funds to a u.s. bank account , obtain access to federal buildings and other vulnerable facilities , purchase a firearm , rent a car and board a plane .  lax standards and loopholes in the current issuance processes allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses -- often multiple licenses from different states -- and abuse the license for identification purposes .  the sept 11th hijackers had , within their possession , at least 15 valid drivers licenses and numerous state issued identity cards with a large variety of addresses .  identification documents are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists .  the real id act would require applicants to provide proof they are in the country legally .  currently , eleven states do not have such a requirement , meaning a majority of states have already recognized the need for tighter standards , but unnecessary and dangerous gaps in the system still exist .  the real id act would require identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status , preventing those who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the u.s. from having valid identification documents .  states would still issue driver 's licenses and identification cards and would control their own driver database .  the 9-11 commission 's staff report on `` 9-11 and terrorist travel '' found that `` a number of terrorists .  .  .  abused the asylum system '' .  examples of terrorists abusing our asylum laws : the `` blind sheik '' , sheik omar abdel rahman , led a plot to bomb new york city landmarks .  rahman used an asylum application to avoid deportation to egypt after all other means of remaining in the u.s. failed .  the 9/11 commission staff report noted than an immigration judge held a hearing on rahman 's asylum claim weeks before his followers bombed the worid trade center .  during the republican convention last august , an illegal alien from pakistan was picked up and arrested for attempting to bomb the herald square subway station and plotting to bomb the verrazano narrows bridge .  he was quoted as saying that `` i want at least 1 , 000 to 2 , 000 to die in one day. '' the alien had applied for asylum .  a number of courts , specifically the 9th circuit court has severely undermined current authorities by limiting the factors that judges can consider when assessing the credibility of an alien seeking asylum .  this impairment encourages asylum fraud .  the real id act would strengthen judges ' ability to determine whether the asylum seeker is truthful .  this provision codifies the factors immigration judges use to assess credibility and prevents the 9th circuit from further undermining our national security .  in 1996 congress approved building the 14 mile long san diego border fence on the mexico-u.s. border , right next to a major u.s. navy base .  the san diego sector covers an area of more than 7 , 000 square miles and contains 66 linear miles of international border with mexico .  directly to the south of the san diego sector area of responsibility lie the mexican cities of tijuana and tecate , which have a combined population of more than two million .  for decades , this area had been the preferred corridor for entry into the united states by unknown or undocumented persons due to the highly populated cities north and south of the border , as well as relatively quick access to national transportation hubs such as lax .  construction of the fence was halted when radical environmentalists claimed that the area was a habitat of a rare bird .  as a result , eight years later , the fence remains incomplete and is an opportunity for aliens to cross the border illegally .  this incomplete fence allows border security gaps to remain open .  we must close these gaps because they remain a threat to our national security .  the real id act will require the completion of this important security fence .  under current immigration laws , prohibitions on some terrorist-related activities only apply to aliens who are trying to enter the u.s. , but not to those who already reside within our borders .  therefore , if an alien seeking a visa has been found to participate in certain terrorist-related activity , he/she is prohibited from entering the u.s. but if an alien is found to have participated in the same terrorist activity in the u.s. , he/she may not be deportable .  the real id act would finally make the laws consistent by providing that all terrorist-related offenses and making aliens inadmissible which would also be grounds for their deportation .  the real id act provides that any alien contributing funds to a terrorist organization would be deportable .  mr. speaker , before yielding to my good friend from massachusetts , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would say to my colleague from texas ( mr. gohmert )  i have not had an opportunity to talk to him , and i simply want to point out to him that all of us that have feelings regarding states ' rights line up in many respects alike .  but the gentleman needs to know that the national governors association and the american association of motor vehicle administrators , the national conference of state legislators all oppose this legislation .  and the primary reason that they do would be , had i known the gentleman 20 years ago , or 10 years ago , he would have been arguing that the federal government is sending unfunded mandates to the states .  well , welcome to the federal government .  this is an unfunded mandate .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i ask the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  whether he is on the committee on the judiciary .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from georgia and i are on the committee on rules , and we know this measure did not come up until 2 hours just before we went in there .  we also know there were no hearings .  we also know that the 9/11 commission went much further than what the gentleman presented here today .  mr. speaker , i gather those unfriendly nations were like saudi arabia where 15 of the 19 hijackers came from .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , before the chairman leaves , just one further word in that regard .  i take , from the many times when the chairman was in the minority , his statement to heart ; and that is that if a rule is not open , it is closed .  yes , the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  said that a lot .  he said that a lot .  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  has cited the 9/11 commission .  after 9/11 , shortly thereafter , i wrote to president bush and introduced legislation that would set the precursor to what ultimately became the department of homeland security of this house of representatives .  during that period of time , i did not have the courtesy of a response from the white house , and the white house opposed setting up inside the administration a cabinet-level homeland security official .  ultimately , they came around .  tim roemer , a former colleague of ours who did serve on the 9/11 commission , and myself and others filed the original legislation leading to the development of the 9/11 independent commission .  and my colleague has cited that commission frequently , but i defy him on the subject of border security , page 186 , to tell me anywhere where it says anything about driver 's licenses .  they talk about creating an interagency center to target illegal entry and human traffickers ; imposing tighter controls on student visas ; taking legal action to prevent terrorists from coming into the united states and to remove those already here ; further increasing the number of immigration agents to fbi joint terrorism task forces ; activating a special court to enable the use of classified evidence .  and i could go on and on and on in the clark working group and the 9/11 report , and not one word , not one word regarding any driver 's licenses .  people that are going to do harm in this nation are not going to do anything other than everything that is fraudulent .  but what we need to know is that there are a variety of people who are significantly opposed to this legislation .  the afl-cio , the american jewish committee , the asian american legal defense and education fund , catholic charities usa , the hebrew immigrant aid society , irish american unity conference , gun owners of america , the american conservative union , the republican liberty caucus , the national association of latino elected officials , the national conference of state legislatures , the council of la raza , the federation of filipino american association , the service employees union ; and there is a list that goes up to 121 organizations that have been shut out because there were no hearings and no opportunity for them to have been heard , other than through the limited debate .  we should stop this business of closing our opportunities and open up the rules .  i oppose this rule .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. chairman , i rise to oppose the iraqi supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  to call this legislation a travesty is to put it nicely .  it is nothing but $ 81 billion of chaos blanketed in lofty-sounding phrases like `` tsunami relief '' and `` supporting our troops. '' actually , this bill represents a mockery of the democratic process .  calling this bill an `` emergency supplemental '' implies that the bush administration and congress were somehow not aware of these costs .  that is ridiculous .  the only unforeseen cost contained in this $ 81 billion dollar boondoggle is the $ 656 million for tsunami relief .  both congress and the administration have known for months that $ 75 billion in the bill for the wars in iraq and afghanistan would be needed , but we did n't put it in the budget .  the real story is that the bush administration is attempting to hide from the american people the real costs of a mismanaged war .  the administration once claimed the war in iraq would cost $ 1.7 billion .  this supplemental alone is almost 50 times that amount .  is the administration out to lunch ?  tomorrow , the house is going to consider a budget resolution that , like the previous year , fails to include adequate funding for the war in iraq .  i 'm not a soothsayer , mr. speaker , but dare i warn , `` beware of the ides of march. '' if tomorrow 's republican budget is passed , we 're going to be here next march writing the bush administration another check to cover the costs of its campaign of nation building .  the bush administration is hiding behind the rhetoric of supporting our troops to escape accountability for the war in iraq , and the american people should be outraged .  we should be embarrassed that members in this body are so willing to write blank checks to a president who has yet to justify how the $ 175 billion in already appropriated money in iraq and afghanistan has been spent .  mr. chairman , i am even more appalled by the manner in which funding for clandestine operations is being carried out in this bill .  this bill allocates a massive amount of money for covert operations , yet the department of defense did not see fit to go through either of the two house authorizing committees of jurisdiction .  congress is creating a private bank account for secretary rumsfield without any oversight or permission from the united states congress .  is this what the american people want -- government by fiat ?  mr. chairman , our government has a process , and this process is vital to preserving the nature of our democracy .  i should n't have to explain that .  all of the bush administration 's rhetoric about global freedom apparently does not extend to the united states capitol building .  what is more important for the bush administration is that they get their money at all and any costs .  i guess that means they will sell this bill on the altruistic notions of patriotism and humanitarianism in a snide attempt to drum up support .  why is this bill being dubbed a tsunami relief effort when the entire supplemental is over 120 times the amount allocated for the tsunami ?  what about the six hundred million dollars to build the world 's biggest embassy in baghdad ?  what are they building this thing out of -- pure lead ?  that same amount of money could go towards vital security upgrades at other embassies and consulates around the world .  why do n't we just make things easier on everyone by throwing this bill out the window and opening up everyone 's bank accounts to the united states executive branch ?  now that 's privatization .  this is n't a question of patriotism , nor is it a question of our commitment to helping tsunami victims recover .  this is an issue with short and long-term constitutional and budgetary ramifications .  i realize that the bush administration feels it would be easier to simply govern without any input or oversight , but the first three articles of the constitution suggest otherwise .  i can not in good conscience support legislation that , for all we know , might pour billions in the pockets of halliburton while depriving our troops of necessary resources .  and i ca n't imagine why the united states congress , led by the appropriations committee , is handing a leash to the white house and waiting to be taken out for a walk .  mr. chairman , i am outraged by this crass attempt to shirk congressional responsibility , and i urge my colleagues to vote against this legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for this time .  i rise in strong support of this conference report as the people 's house at long last takes care of some unfinished business .  in the closing days of the 108th congress , some in the other body objected to commonsense provisions that deal with our national security and our border security , to wit , the notion that when you apply for a driver 's license or another legal document , you should be who you say you are , and you should enjoy legal status in this country .  this supplemental conference report includes the real id act , and at long last the congress of the united states gets real and understands that border security and national security are one and the same .  pass this to help protect our borders and help protect our national security .  mr. chairman , i rise to express my strong support of h.r. 418 .  chairman sensenbrenner has presented for the consideration of the house a commonsense bill that will disrupt travel of would-be terrorists who would seek to do us harm right here in america .  when enacted , these provisions will be yet another set of effective tools to help prevent another september 11-type attack .  all of these provisions are derived from provisions of the house-passed version of h.r. 10 , the 9-11 recommendations implementation act of 2004 .  during the conference with the other body on what became the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 , the provisions contained in h.r. 418 were either dropped in their entirety or modified so substantially as to virtually defeat the fundamental purpose of the provision .  a majority of the conferees on the part of the house very reluctantly agreed in order to get a conference agreement on the fundamental reform of the nation 's intelligence community .  we are all original cosponsors of h.r. 418 .  as chairman of the conference , i thought that these provisions made sense then and they make sense now and should be enacted .  the core provisions of h.r. 418 establish a set of fundamental standards that state-issued identification cards , including driver 's license , must meet to be recognized for federal identification purposes , such as entering a federal building .  the bill provides the various states with 3 years to make any necessary modifications to their identification cards , if they so chose .  the bill provides the secretary of homeland security with discretion to extend the deadline for good cause upon application by an individual state .  the bill does not impede the authority of individual states to determine who may operate a motor vehicle or who may be issued a state personal identification card for non-federal purposes .  some argue that the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 already addresses this issue adequately .  i simply disagree .  the enacted provision requires a negotiated rulemaking process , without any absolute certitude that the negotiations on the proposed consensus regulations will be concluded by the date specified in the act .  no hard date for implementation of these fundamental standards is specified .  h.r. 418 also restores the authority of an immigration judge to make a determination whether to grant or deny an individual application for asylum .  at its core , the provision makes explicit the judge 's authority to assess the creditability of the assertions of oppression being made by the applicant , just as judges and juries do each day with respect to criminal defendants .  as some assert , h.r. 418 does not require the asylum applicant to produce documentary evidence in order to be granted asylum .  it grants an immigration judge the authority to request the applicant to provide evidence to support the applicant 's oral testimony and that of witnesses ' supporting the applicant .  h.r. 418 clearly states that the applicant is not required to provide documentary evidence if `` the applicant does not have the evidence or can not obtain the evidence without departing the united states. '' h.r. 418 includes a provision specifying that offenses which currently provide grounds to deny a would-be terrorist entry into the united states are also grounds for the deportation of such persons , if they have somehow managed to enter the country illegally .  today , that is not the case .  this glaring gap in the law must be closed .  finally , h.r. 418 provides the secretary of homeland security with authority to waive environmental laws , so that the border fence running 14 miles east from the pacific ocean at san diego may finally be completed .  authorized by congress in 1996 , it has yet to be completed because of on-going environmental litigation .  it is time to complete this much needed barrier to help secure one of the most used corridors for illegal entry , which is adjacent to the numerous facilities of the united states navy and marine corps in san diego .  mr. chairman , i commend chairman sensenbrenner for his leadership and urge my colleagues to support h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 , the real id act .  this legislation was crafted under the guise of protecting our borders and improving homeland security .  however , it would make it more difficult for victims of persecution to obtain asylum impose expensive mandates on the states , and authorize the secretary of homeland security to waive any and all laws to construct barriers at our international borders -- none of which will make this country any safer from terrorists .  this legislation would also effectively undo the important immigration and security reforms passed by the 108th congress , putting us at greater risk for future attacks .  the 9/11 commission 's immigration-related recommendations focused on targeting terrorist travel through reliable identification systems and effective , integrated information sharing .  instead , this legislation seeks to change immigration laws broadly and in ways unrelated to essential intelligence reform .  this legislation would expand the authority for expedited alien removal without further hearing or review , impose stringent restrictions on asylum seekers hoping to be given an interview with an asylum officer , and require unreasonable standards of proof for aliens seeking asylum .  none of the 9/11 hijackers sought or were granted asylum ; rather , they were granted legal visas to enter the united states using fraudulent documents overseas .  furthermore , current law explicitly bars terrorists or members of terrorist organizations from gaining asylum , and asylum-seekers already undergo thorough background checks through the fbi , cia , department of homeland security , and department of state databases .  the onerous restrictions offered by h.r. 418 would keep highly-vulnerable victims of heinous crimes from escaping their persecutors , and they do not address the real vulnerabilities in our immigration system .  a report released this week by the united states commission on international religious freedom underscores the dangerous impact these so-called reforms would have on our asylum process .  according to the commission , the current expedited removal process in the u.s. places victims of persecution at great risk for further trauma , while the severity of conditions and deprivation imposed on asylum seekers was `` shocking. '' rather than address this serious situation in the ways recommended by the commission , today this congress would force even more innocent asylum seekers into expedited removal or send them back to their persecutors without an opportunity to appeal their case to an immigration judge .  h.r. 418 would also impose statutory requirements for state-issued driver 's licenses and repeal the important identification security measures enacted by the bipartisan intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act .  rather than permit local , state , and federal officials to work together to create minimum security standards for driver 's licenses and identification cards as authorized by congress last year , h.r. 418 would mandate statutory standards for states and require them to share personal information on all licensed drivers in a massive national database .  h.r. 418 would dismantle the carefully crafted immigration and security reforms enacted by congress last year in the intelligence reform bill .  that law will toughen our border security by adding 10 , 000 new border patrol agents over the next 5 years , strengthening visa application requirements , and adding 4 , 000 new immigration and customs investigators .  it fortifies identification security while allowing the state officials charged with making those changes to be a part of the process .  mr. chairman , this law implemented key 9/11 commission recommendations without jeopardizing our legal immigration system or the ability of legitimate asylum seekers to escape persecution .  our country was founded on the principle of immigration , and we must not close our doors to those who lawfully seek to share in the freedom and democracy that americans have always held dear .  the congress must do everything in its power to protect our citizens and our borders .  h.r. 418 , however , does not achieve those important goals , and i urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation .  i am , mr. speaker , in its present form .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the real id act incorporates four of the 9/11 commission recommendations that are necessary to effectively protect our constituents from terrorists seeking to exploit loopholes in our immigration system .  this bill will close several of those dangerous loopholes .  in addition to providing important federal security guidelines for driver 's licenses , the real id act also includes other important homeland security measures , including the deportability of terrorists , preventing terrorists from gaming the asylum system , and implementing border security measures in san diego .  currently , the terrorists and their supporters can be kept out of the united states ; but as soon as they set foot into the u.s. on tourist visas , we can not deport them for many of the very same offenses .  this hinders our ability to protect americans from those alien terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  h.r. 418 makes aliens deportable for the same terrorist-related offenses as those that would prevent them from being admitted to the united states in the first place .  another deficiency in current law is based on a flawed understanding of how terrorist organizations operate .  the immigration and nationality act now reads that if an alien provides funding or other material support to a terrorist organization , the alien can escape deportation if they can show that he did not know that the funds or support would further the organization 's terrorist activity ; i.e. , his donation did not immediately go to buying explosives .  as kenneth mckune , former associate coordinator for counterterrorism at the state department , explained , `` given the purposes , organizational structure , and clandestine nature of foreign terrorist organizations , it is highly likely that any material support to these organizations will ultimately inure to the benefit of their criminal , terrorist functions , regardless of whether such support was ostensibly intended to support nonviolent , nonterrorist activities. '' money given to terrorist organizations is fungible .  senator diane feinstein has rightly stated that `` i simply do not accept that so-called humanitarian works by terrorist groups can be kept separate from their other operations .  i think the money will ultimately go to bombs and bullets rather than babies , or , because money is fungible , it will free up other funds to be used on terrorist activities. '' the real id act is written so that an alien who provides funds or other material support to a terrorist organization would be deportable unless he did not know and should not reasonably have known that the organization was a terrorist organization .  mr. chairman , i urge the support and passage of h.r. 418 .  mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring of the majority leader the schedule for the week to come .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time once again , i presume the gentleman is talking about merged at some later date .  obviously , the must-pass bill would not be available next week .  am i correct ?  so the gentleman is talking about merging it at some time in the future after passage ?  mr. leader , with respect to the energy bill , it is my understanding that there is some discussion that the energy bill may proceed not next week but the week following .  can you tell me whether that is a reasonable possibility , or probability ?  mr. leader , i might say that i think all of us understand the importance of energy legislation .  all of us understand the necessity to become energy independent .  i would suggest , in that framework , that i think personally that we can pass an energy bill .  obviously , there are some items that are in the energy bill or that are proposed for the energy bill that have significant opposition on one side of the aisle or the other .  i would hope , mr. leader , if we could , in working with the various committee chairs , and i suppose most primarily the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  and the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  in this respect , to come to as bipartisan an agreement on the substance of that bill so that we could see it not just pass through the house of representatives , which may be interesting in terms of the political claim that we passed it , but which does nothing for our energy independence , which is , i think , our objective .  so i would hope that we could deal with this in as bipartisan a fashion as possible so that when we send it to the other body that we may have more success there , more success out of conference , and send a bill to the president that will facilitate both energy independence and the effective and efficient discovery , development , and delivery at retail to the consumer of energy options .  i do not know whether you want to say anything .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for referencing the committee on ways and means , but i certainly agree with him that having the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas )  and the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  work closely together , and perhaps their respective chairs of the subcommittees that might deal with that work together , would be very , very useful to accomplishing an objective as opposed to simply passing a bill that then languishes in the congress and never gets to the president .  if , in fact , we consider that , and it sounds to me like we certainly do not have enough information to determine whether or not the week after next the energy bill might be on the floor , but if and when it comes to the floor , mr. leader , would you contemplate the possibility of having an open rule on that piece of legislation , given its importance and scope ?  mr. speaker , i would hope on that bill , because of its great importance to the security of the nation and to all of our consumers of energy , which is to say all of us , that we would have as broad a consideration of it as possible so that we could get everybody 's ideas put on the floor , voted up or down , and move the bill with as big a consensus as we can accomplish .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin , and i thank our new chairman and congratulate him on his new position .  mr. chairman , i intend to vote for this supplemental appropriations bill , because i believe it is imperative to support our men and women in harm 's way in iraq and afghanistan and to continue our nation 's important work there .  our nation must finish what it has begun .  we can not disregard the bravery of millions of iraqi citizens who turned out to vote in january .  failure there , in my opinion , is not and should not be an option .  this legislation also is a recognition of the bravery and courage of our service men and women , more than 1 , 500 of whom have given the ultimate measure of sacrifice for freedom .  as tom friedman pointed out in the new york times in february : `` there is no single action we could undertake anywhere in the world to reduce the threat of terrorism that would have a bigger impact today than a decent outcome in iraq. '' i share that view .  mr. chairman , i believe it is more than mere coincidence that over the last several months the winds of democratic reform have begun to blow , not only in iraq and afghanistan but also in lebanon , egypt , saudi arabia , and the palestinian authority .  but we must harbor no illusions about the prospects for democratic reform in lands that have never known it .  however , i believe that it is in our nation 's interests to encourage and promote it .  mr. chairman , i also want to note that this legislation includes funding for food and humanitarian assistance in sudan , as well as tsunami relief .  however , despite these important funding requests , i would be remiss if i did not point out that this bill is far from perfect .  in many respects it is troubling .  this congress has a constitutional obligation , a duty , on behalf of the voters who elected us to serve here to hold the administration accountable for such expenditures .  we have asked for a report .  we have not gotten that report yet .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  mentioned that in our markup .  the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  mentioned that in our markup .  the american public wants to support this effort but wants to do so in an effective , honest and efficient manner .  it is our responsibility to ensure that .  it is clear that the administration has included many measures in addition that are not emergencies .  we understand that practice .  it has happened before .  but i believe with all due respect that we have not met our oversight requirements .  this bill is approximately $ 82 billion .  in talking to staff , and maybe i stand to be corrected , but i believe that there are only two appropriations bills , defense and labor and health that are larger than this $ 82 billion bill .  now there may be another one .  i think va-hud used to be but we do not have va-hud .  what does that mean ?  that means we are passing the third largest appropriations bill that we will pass in the congress .  what does that mean ?  we are passing the third largest appropriations bill through this house without a single hearing , not one .  there was no hearing in subcommittee , any of the subcommittees .  there was no hearing in the full committee .  we had 2 1/2 hours of consideration in the full committee .  mr. chairman , as you know , we literally hold hundreds , perhaps thousands of hours of hearings on the individual bills .  as a result , individual members have the opportunity to ask questions , to make sure themselves that the money that is asked for is being spent appropriately .  as i said , i will support this bill .  i do not hold our new chairman responsible for this .  this is a supplemental .  it came down relatively late .  our men and women are at risk .  we need to get this money moving .  i understand that .  but i suggest to my colleagues that oversight is critical , and i would urge the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the ranking member , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , that as we proceed with further consideration of these items that we exercise oversight carefully in the coming months to assure ourselves that this money is being spent as we intend it to be .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i am of course going to vote for this emergency supplemental appropriation because i believe it is absolutely imperative to support our brave men and women in harm 's way in afghanistan and iraq .  i know that even today , 2 years after the onset of operation iraqi freedom , there continues to be strong disagreement across the nation on the decision to remove the brutal hussein regime as well as the planning and prosecution of our military effort in iraq .  however , on this point , i believe there is unanimity .  we , the elected representatives of the american people , have a legislative duty as well as a moral responsibility , to do everything in our power to ensure that our troops have everything they need to defeat the vicious insurgency in iraq , to assist the iraqi people in establishing democracy , and continuing our efforts in afghanistan .  in my view , however , we are not doing enough .  just last week , the new york times reported the experience of marine company e , an experience that , `` was punctuated not only by a lack of armor , but also by a shortage of men and planning that further hampered their efforts in the battle. '' i am pleased , mr. speaker , that this bill includes $ 1.4 billion more than the administration requested for bolstering force protection needs such as add-on armor and night vision goggles , and , in addition , for outfitting troops rotating into iraq and afghanistan .  over the last 4 years , this administration , however , has refused to ask the american people , particularly the wealthiest american people , to make even minimal sacrifices , while we ask our men and women in afghanistan and iraq for some to make the ultimate sacrifice .  the very least , in my opinion , that we can do is give them the resources they need to achieve victory and to return home safely .  i also support , mr. speaker , the important funding in this bill for tsunami relief , foreign assistance , and domestic homeland security as well as the $ 200 million in assistance for the palestinian authority for infrastructure and economic development projects .  those are all worthwhile , necessary , and important projects .  the political reforms taking place in the territories must be accompanied by an end to the poverty and lack of opportunity facing the palestinian people .  that is ultimately how we will defeat terrorism .  finally , however , let me raise , mr. speaker , one objection , among others , to the funding bill : the $ 592 million for a new embassy compound in baghdad .  that is not an emergency .  this funding , mr. speaker , is not only inappropriate in this emergency supplemental appropriation , but it also , in my opinion , is substantially excessive in its expenditures ; not to keep the people safe , we can do that , but to create an embassy in a relatively small country that , hopefully , in the years ahead , will be more peaceful than we have found it .  mr. speaker , i believe that we are at a critical juncture in iraq .  victory is imperative , although it is not certain .  i urge my colleagues to support this conference report .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time .  we started this fence about 20 years ago .  we started it by building the first steel fence across that 14-mile segment between the coastal hills of san diego county and the pacific ocean .  we did that because drug trucks were running that border at the rate of about 300 per month .  we had about 10 people being murdered each year , along with numerous robberies and rapes , to such a high degree that the best-selling book , `` lines and shadows '' by joseph wambaugh , was written depicting this `` no man 's land , '' where nobody wanted to be after dark .  so we built that first line , which was the steel fence right on the border .  we then built the second fence , that is , the second tier of the so-called triple fence , after we passed a law signed by president bill clinton in 1996 .  and it was president clinton who signed the bill waiving the endangered species act and waiving nepa because he thought it was so important that we have security at this , the most porous smugglers ' corridor in the united states of america .  now , i can just tell you , as a guy who has worked on this thing from the start , my staff went out and found those 79 , 000 steel landing mats to build this fence .  if the extremists had discovered this fence before we got the first 12 miles built , that would not be built .  we stopped those 300 drug trucks a month , stopped them dead .  we eliminated the 10 murders a year , mostly of undocumented workers .  we eliminated the hundreds of rapes of the people who were coming through there because we built that fence .  if the extremists had had their way , they would have gone to a sympathetic federal court , tied us up in lawsuits and we would not have had the fence .  the secretary of the navy has written us a letter saying that completion of this project will enhance the security of our naval installations by reducing the potential threat environment created by an unsecured border .  a few miles north of this gap in the fence is the biggest naval installation on the west coast .  through this gap have come and been apprehended people from nations that sponsor terrorists , nations like north korea , nations like syria .  this is a security issue .  and for people to say this is an environmental issue , this is the state of play right now , all these trails you see have been hammered into that ecosystem by the smugglers .  none of my colleagues have been out there trying to stop them .  they have hammered these trails by the hundreds into the ecosystem , hammered it into the marshlands and the estuary lands .  good biologists say it will take hundreds of years for these areas to be restored , not by actions of the border patrol or by our security apparatus , but by the smugglers who come across this particular gap in the fence .  we need to secure this gap .  the secretary of the navy recognizes that , president clinton recognized that and gave an unprecedented waiver .  we need to complete the border fence .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the conference agreement .  i wish to commend the conferees for their work in bringing this important legislation to the house floor .  not only does this bill provide critical support to our military and the war on terror , but it also funds international humanitarian reconstruction and economic assistance programs provided by the united states agency for international development .  as my colleagues know , i have believed for many years that the hiv/aids pandemic represents one of the greatest health and moral crises of our time , particularly in africa .  that is why i was especially pleased by the president 's announcement of a visionary emergency plan for aids relief , and have supported grants and other programs funded by usaid that help to reverse the spread of this pandemic .  it is thus my strongly held view that usaid should continue to fund existing programs , as well as invest in new programs , that support the president 's hiv/aids initiative .  in this regard , there are two programs , both directed toward south africa , that i believe deserve the agency 's particular attention .  the first program is the new african center for aids management , which has , to date , trained over 800 graduates and is the largest program of its kind worldwide .  i understand that usaid has provided only modest funding to support this initiative , while the bulk of the support has come from south african institutions .  with substantial additional support from usaid during fiscal years 2005 and 2006 , this program could double in size and provide training for executives and senior managers from government , the provinces , municipalities and educational institutions , as well as ngos , corporations , and trade unions , in the management of an expanded capability to detect and treat hiv/aids in africa .  the second program would be a new joint u.s.-south african program to provide telemedicine-equipped mobile clinics to serve the south african military involved in peacekeeping efforts throughout africa .  this program , which merits both usaid and dod support , would be run through the south africa medical research council and provide medical services to remote areas to combat hiv/aids and other infectious diseases .  this mobile clinic system , employing some of the latest u.s. telemedicine technologies , would leverage u.s. military expertise across distances .  as this system develops , so would it expand in both its capabilities and its services to the civilian population .  both of these programs are examples of humanitarian initiatives requiring modest investments that usaid is both equipped and funded to support .  i applaud the agency 's past work in this area , and encourage both the continuation of existing efforts and the expansion of the new efforts that i have outlined .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  this bill includes provisions that are essential to preventing terrorists and other criminals from obtaining fraudulent identification and provides security at our borders .  last year , congress passed legislation based on the recommendations of the 9/11 commission but failed to address vital national security and homeland security issues .  this legislation addresses theses issues and further secures our nation in a post 9/11 world .  h.r. 418 requires states to implement new minimum regulations for state drivers ' license and identification document security standards that must be met within 3 years .  it also establishes a process to enable states to use an existing department of transportation communication system to confirm that drivers ' licenses presented are genuine and validly issued to the person who is carrying them .  the 19 terrorists who attacked america on 9/11 had obtained over 63 valid forms of identification between them to breach our homeland security .  improving document security is necessary to counter threats from foreign terrorism .  this legislation also takes important steps regarding asylum reform .  it prevents terrorists and scam artists from abusing our asylum system and gives immigration judges the tools they need to undercut asylum fraud before it happens .  most importantly , h.r. 418 is critical to the continued construction of the southwest border fence in san diego .  despite efforts by the federal government and the border patrol , california 's coastal commission has objected to and stopped the final phase of fence construction .  completion of the fence will reduce the number of illegal crossings , and will allow the border patrol to re-deploy manpower and resources to other problem areas in san diego .  completion of the 3-mile gap in the fence , known as `` smugglers gulch , '' would be a strong step toward securing our border .  mr. chairman , i made a promise to my constituents to continue to fight for security enhancements to curb illegal immigration and secure our borders .  this legislation is essential to national security and i urge my colleagues to vote in support of h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to strike the requisite number of words .  mr. speaker , i raise a point of order .  mr. speaker , pursuant to section 426 of the congressional budget act of 1974 , i make a point of order against consideration of the rule , h. res. 71 .  line 10 on page 2 of h. res. 71 states , `` all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. '' the rule makes in order h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , which contains a large unfunded mandate on state governments in violation of section 425 of the budget act .  section 426 of the budget act specifically states that the rules committee may not waive section 425 , and therefore this rule violates section 426 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank my colleague from texas for his comments .  i think i can start out by saying that we come from a state that is very diligent and as well very astute on their members of congress supporting unfunded mandates to a burdened and already overworked state budget in a growing state that would have added responsibilities with this enormous burden that this real id bill would exercise against it .  let me just say to the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  , because i know his commitment to fiscal responsibility , let me refer him back to the cbo report of 2004 .  we appreciate the cbo , but we know what happened ; and i think it is more important to know what the impact will be on the states on the basis of the national governors association and state legislatures .  in 2004 , on this very same bill , the cbo told what the numbers would be .  it was not under $ 62 million .  in fact , it was mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , we are on the floor today because the representation has been made to the american people and to our colleagues that this legislation is legislation that relates and responds to the crisis in the war on terror .  we all are united in that war , but this is an immigration bill , and i do believe we should do immigration in a bipartisan manner .  let me make it very clear , the 9/11 terrorists would not have been thwarted by this legislation .  in fact , all 19 of the 9/11 hijackers had documents to enter the country legally .  and under this particular legislation , the terrorists would not have been prevented from using these documents to obtain driver 's licenses .  i think the real crux is as was quoted in the words of governor jeb bush , `` what do you do with them ?  `` illegal aliens who are working in our hotels and factories , who are working every day in our states and our cities and our counties ?  the last thing , mr. chairman : do we remember bosnia and kosovo ?  these were people seeking asylum .  i think we have to judge ourselves by reason and reasonable policy .  i join my colleagues in working together to secure the homeland , but in this instance , this does not follow the 9/11 recommendations .  this commission did , in fact , say that they wanted secure documents , and identification should begin in the united states .  it did not document or indicate in which manner we should be able to do that .  i would have hoped that h.r. 620 , the security measures feasibility act , which would ask the hard questions of how and what is the best vehicle in order to be able to establish these secure documents , would have been the better approach .  now we undermine the states ' ability for safety and security in their own states , and we undermine the very principles of this nation , which are to open the doors for those fleeing persecution both in terms of religious and political persecution .  what about the cubans ?  what about the haitians , the liberians , the sudanese , the bosnians ?  what about those fleeing , as my colleague has indicated , our jewish individuals who were fleeing persecution ?  i simply say that we have a better way of doing this .  i wish we could do it together .  i hope my colleagues will oppose this bill so we might do this effort in a bipartisan manner .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the real id act is an attempt to breathe life into immigration provisions that were stripped from the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act .  these provisions were viewed as controversial then , and they are no less controversial now .  the real id act should have been subjected to hearings and markups before being brought to the floor .  the supporters of the h.r. 418 are afraid that terrorists are using our asylum laws as a means of entering and remaining in the united states .  this fear has to be put into perspective .  terrorists are statutorily barred from asylum eligibility , and it is not apparent why they would choose such a complicated , time consuming method for entering and remaining in the united states in any event .  the 9/11 hijackers entered and remained in the united states as nonimmigrant visitors .  visitors ' visas only require a two-minute interview with an american consulate officer .  the applicant just has to establish that he will return to his country at the end of the authorized period of stay .  this is much easier than the steps required for obtaining asylum , which , among other things , require the applicant to establish a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion .  the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act established a study to find out the extent to which terrorists are attempting to use our asylum laws to enter and remain in the united states and what weaknesses they are exploiting .  we need to wait for that information before we consider any bills on revising our asylum laws .  changes should be designed to deal specifically with weaknesses that we know are being exploited .  the approach in the real id act is to raise the bar on the burden of proof , which would result in a denial of relief to bona fide asylum seekers without any assurance that the changes would discourage terrorists from seeking asylum .  for instance , in addition to showing that the alleged persecution would be `` on account of '' one of the enumerated grounds , the applicant would have to establish that the persecution was or will be `` a central reason for persecuting the applicant. '' in effect , the asylum applicant would have to establish what was in the mind of the persecutor .  it is not apparent how this would discourage terrorists from fabricating asylum claims .  the only certainty is that it would make it more difficult for bona fide asylum seekers to meet their burden of proof .  the unfairness of this approach is illustrated by a comment that the honorable sandra day o'connor made recently about the asylum laws of our country .  she said : the united states offers protection in the form of asylum to individuals fleeing persecution in other nations .  in most cases , however , asylum seekers find themselves alone , destitute and facing deportation .  asylum law is governed by a labyrinth of statutes , regulations , and case law , but , unlike criminal defendants , only those asylum seekers who can afford to hire an attorney or who are fortunate enough to secure pro bono counsel are represented .  the real id act would codify the standards that adjudicators use in making credibility findings in asylum proceedings .  the codification would encourage adverse credibility findings against asylum applicants who can not produce corroborating evidence of their account , or whose demeanor is inconsistent with an immigration judge 's preconceived expectations .  this can be very unfair .  people fleeing persecution often lack the opportunity and the ability to secure the legal evidence needed to corroborate their claims , and demeanor is a function in some cases of cultural background rather than credibility .  for instance , it is considered rude in some cultures to stare into another person 's eyes during a conversation , but the failure to look someone in the eyes indicates deception in this country .  the real id act also would expand the categories of people who can be excluded or deported as a terrorist .  the broad net this would create would ensnare innocent people who have made donations or been involved in some other way with organizations they did not know were terrorist organizations .  the defense to removal on that basis would be to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that you did not know , and should not reasonably have known , that the organization was a terrorist organization .  this can be an impossible burden to meet .  for instance , how would you prove by clear and convincing evidence that you did not notice a person who entered this room 5 minutes ago ?  the real id act also includes sections on security measures for drivers ' licenses and identification cards .  we have already enacted legislation to improve security measures for drivers ' licenses and identification cards .  the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act we just enacted requires the secretary of transportation , in consultation with the secretary of homeland security , to promulgate regulations establishing minimum standards for driver 's licenses or personal identification cards issued by a state for use by federal agencies for identification purposes .  before being published as proposed regulations , the standards would be subjected to a negotiated rule making committee that would include the affected stakeholders such as state elected officials and state motor vehicle departments .  the recommendations of this committee are required to include an assessment of the benefits and the costs of the measures in the proposed regulations .  in contrast , the real id act would impose specific requirements on the states now , without giving the states and the other stakeholders an opportunity to provide input on what these requirements should be , and without an assessment of the benefits and costs of the measures .  if the security measures were to prove to be impossible or too costly to implement , it would require an act of congress to change them .  before we can address the merits of the security measures that would be required by the real id act , we need answers to the following questions .  ( 1 ) are the states capable of establishing and implementing the security measures mr. sensenbrenner is proposing ?  for instance , his bill calls for two categories of drivers ' licenses , one for citizens and permanent residents and another for aliens who have nonimmigrant status .  the licenses for nonimmigrants would be tied to periods of lawful status and extensions of the status .  can the state motor vehicle departments handle this increased work load ?  will the states be able to provide the training needed to evaluate the many immigration documents that reflect lawful nonimmigrant status ?  ( 2 ) how much would it cost to establish , implement , and maintain these security measures ?  we do not have unlimited the real id act also would restrict the privilege of obtaining a driver 's license to aliens who have lawful status .  my security measures feasibility act would establish a study of the consequences that would result from forcing millions of undocumented aliens to drive without drivers ' licenses .  sheriff timothy bukowski of kankakee , illinois , has made an important observation on this matter .  according to sheriff bukowski , the issuance of drivers ' licenses is a safety issue , not an immigration issue .  i agree with sheriff bukowski , a driver 's license is more than just a privilege to the driver , it also is a device that the states use to make our highways safer .  austin assistant chief of police rudy landerso explains it this way .  `` [ w ] e strongly believe it would be in the public interest to make available to these communities the ability to obtain a driver 's license .  in allowing this community the opportunity to obtain driver 's licenses , they will have to study our laws and pass a driver 's test that will make them not only informed drivers but safe drivers. '' i would just add that it also requires them to have insurance .  the real id act contains a provision that would provide the secretary of homeland security with authority to waive all laws he deems necessary for the expeditious construction of the barriers authorized to be constructed by section 102 of the illegal immigration reform and immigration responsibility act of 1996 , iirira .  to my knowledge , a waiver this broad is unprecedented .  it would waive all laws , including laws protecting civil rights ; laws protecting the health and safety of workers ; laws , such as the davis-bacon act , which are intended to ensure that construction workers on federally-funded projects are paid the prevailing wage ; environmental laws ; and laws respecting sacred burial grounds .  it so broad that it would not just apply to i am concerned also by the piecemeal approach that the real id act is taking to immigration reform .  we need comprehensive immigration reform , not fixes for a few specific problems .  this view is shared by our colleagues on the senate side .  senator john mccain has expressed the need to have comprehensive immigration reform .  i have heard that he will be working on comprehensive immigration legislation with senator edward kennedy .  we can do the same thing in the house of representatives .  i invite my colleagues who are supporting the real id act to work with me on comprehensive immigration reform .  in the meantime , however , passage of this piece-meal , ill-advised bill would be a step backwards .  i urge you to vote against it .  mr. chairman , do i have time for a unanimous consent request ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me make a point that i think should be very clear .  this legislation will not just impact those who are undocumented .  this legislation will impact those immigrants who have legal status .  in the process of reviewing or revising that status , they too become part of the large webbed fishnet of hauling people in by people who are inexperienced in this area .  so i would offer to my colleagues that this is random , it is reckless , and it needs a bipartisan look and oversight committee assessment .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , let me pointedly ask the gentleman , you speak specifically to a judicial conviction going through , as opposed to being tapped and saying , you are carrying a false driver 's license .  the gentleman is talking about actually trial and conviction ?  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time and i would simply say the comment on this is that i appreciate the distinguished gentleman from delaware being open with his response .  one of the concerns i have is that we do not know whether dhs is doing this or what tsa is doing and hearings would have been appropriate .  this is a valid issue , let us not doubt that ; and , of course , i would hope that we would want a database to be secured .  i do have to raise red flags on making sure it is not random , making sure there is a conviction , and in knowing what happens with dhs .  i would have wanted to have hearings , but i thank the gentleman for his answers .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me just close by raising these points .  it looks like we are moving quite quickly .  it is the question of having the answers .  this has good intentions , but the answers of what dhs is doing , the training of tsa , what kind of standards are used in different airports .  some tsa person might say it is a mistake , go back .  others might make it in essence a federal crime and that person is prosecuted .  so some you get in the database , others you do not .  it is just a question of concern as to how this will work .  again , it is a good idea .  mr. chairman , i recognize the importance of having standardized drivers ' licenses and identification cards .  this should be done on a bipartisan basis , however .  the real id act was not bipartisan , and it was moved too quickly through the legislative process .  it was passed without any committee hearings or markups .  mr. speaker , i rise sadly to oppose the emergency supplemental because of the horrific and ill-advised immigration provisions and the lack of oversight that has been given to the provisions in this section .  i hope we will have an opportunity to address this in a comprehensive manner .  mr. speaker , i rise today very conflicted over a piece of vital legislation for which this entire body should really be in solidarity .  the conference report on h.r. 1268 provides for emergency fy2005 funds for military operations in iraq and afghanistan , tsunami relief efforts , foreign assistance programs and domestic homeland security priorities .  however , this legislation also includes an insidious section with provisions of h.r. 418 , the real id act , which has nothing to do with what should be the real intent of this emergency supplemental .  instead of being united on issues of national security and international relations , we are put in a divisive situation with the provisions of the real id act .  the issues of importance addressed by this emergency supplemental do not give rise to a need to include provisions from h.r. 418 , the real id act -- legislation for which congress has not held a legislative hearing , markup , nor full debate in the house .  just last year , our colleagues on the other side of the aisle attempted to force these provisions in the context of the 9/11 intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , h.r. 10 .  the sponsor of the real id act 's driver 's license provisions would have gone far beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations .  the 9/11 commission did not suggest that the standards should be federally mandated without state participation , that a database should be created to share personal identification information , that undocumented immigrants should be prevented from getting licenses or that non-citizens should get an identifiably different driver 's license .  finally , none of the real id act sponsor 's provisions have been reviewed by the congress or the commission .  there have been no hearings or debates on these significant changes to existing law .  the immigration provisions that have been forced into this supplemental include numerous provisions restricting the grant of asylum `` protection , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers anywhere within the united states , and denying immigrants long-standing habeas corpus rights .  the usa patriot act , for which we in the subcommittee on crime , terrorism , and homeland security of the judiciary are only now holding hearings in piecemeal form , already barred terrorists from receiving asylum protection in the united states .  none of the people associated with recent attacks , or plans for terrorist attacks in the u.s. , were here under grants of asylum .  instead , these changes will make it harder for people legitimately fleeing persecution to prove their asylum claims and gain protection here .  bona fide refugees who can not meet the higher standards will be returned to countries where they were persecuted , possibly to face terror , torture and death .  the forced provisions will set a dangerous legal precedent by requiring the government to waive all federal , state and local laws to build barriers and fences to deter illegal entry into the united states .  this waiver would require violating laws that protect sacred native american burial sites , important environmental regions , and the wages of laborers .  yet this policy is unnecessary .  in the 9-11 act , we passed language to develop and implement a comprehensive plan for the systematic surveillance of the southwest border by remotely piloted aircraft and other electronic means .  we can preserve our legal rights and regimes and still secure our nation .  the great majority of this emergency supplemental , a sum of $ 75.9 billion goes towards u.s. military operations in iraq and afghanistan .  in this conference report 's military spending total of $ 75.9 billion includes $ 37.1 billion for military operations and maintenance spending , $ 17.4 billion for personnel , and $ 17.4 billion for new weapons procurement .  i am very pleased to say that this conference report increases the military death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 , from $ 12 , 420 , and increases subsidized life insurance benefits to $ 400 , 000 , from $ 250 , 000 , for families of soldiers who died or were killed while on active duty beginning from oct .  7 , 2001 .  i can not describe how fundamental it is that we take care of our armed forces and their loved ones .  this conference report addresses some of the concerns that democrats have had about the fact that the families of soldiers who were killed while on active duty were not being given the necessary funds to provide for themselves .  in addition , this conference report provides $ 308 million more than requested for add-on vehicle armor kits ; large increases for new trucks ; added funds for night-vision equipment ; and $ 60 million in unrequested funds for radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents as i stated there are many provisions of this emergency supplemental in which this body can be united in agreement .  one such issue is the tsunami relief provided in this emergency supplemental .  the conference report before us today appropriates $ 907 million in direct assistance for tsunami disaster relief for countries affected by the dec .  26 , 2004 , earthquake and tsunami .  in addition , this measure also provides $ 226 million to reimburse the u.s. military for expenses incurred in providing emergency relief to the tsunami victims , and $ 25 million to build and deploy 35 new tsunami-detection buoys in the pacific , atlantic , the caribbean and the gulf of mexico to provide warning to communities of approaching tsunamis .  i had the opportunity to see the damage caused by the tsunami when i visited sri lanka with my colleagues led by mr. crowley shortly after the tsunami disaster .  i had the opportunity to visit with usaid personnel who were there trying to aid the sri lankan people in rebuilding their nation .  i have to say the attitude of our american personel and the smiles they brought to the face of the sri lankan people would make every member of this congress very proud .  we talk about public diplomacy with the international world and i firmly believe that the funds appropriated here along with the work of our personnel on the ground help make a great case for the goodness of our nation .  i am also similarly pleased that about $ 400 million in this conference report will go towards humanitarian assistance in darfur , sudan .  i recently had the opportunity to visit refugee camps in neighboring chad where thousands of sudanese in darfur have fled to escape the conflict .  needless to say , i was able to confirm from eyewitness accounts that the conflict in darfur is indeed even more shocking and deeply disturbing in its viciousness than has been reported to us .  we as a nation must stand against such brutality and the funds in this emergency supplemental will help to ease the suffering of those involved in this conflict .  in addition , this conference report includes $ 920 million for all peacekeeping programs , many of which are in sudan .  however , while i have always been a strong again , i am in general support of the goals proposed by h.r. 1268 , but i am troubled by the implications of the supplemental appropriations measure that this body is poised to pass that relate to immigration policy .  the underlying legislation proposes to fund important needs that pertain to operation iraqi freedom ; operation enduring freedom , in afghanistan ; army and marine corps restructuring ; recapitalization and replacement of equipment ; and replenishment of cash balances in certain working capital funds .  in truth , this emergency supplemental funds many needed priorities , but it is the one issue of the real id act , which is not a priority , that poisons this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise in reluctant support for the $ 81.1 billion emergency supplemental funding bill we are considering today .  the only reason i am voting for the bill before us today is because it provides much needed equipment for our forces in theater , increases death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 for families of soldiers who have died or were killed on active duty .  my support for this measure is tepid at best .  what troubles me the most about this bill are two key concerns : one , there are no mechanisms for tracking if the money is properly spent .  there is simply no mechanism for improving accountability of how taxpayers ' dollars are spent .  the defense department wants to take the money and provide little detail to congress on how these dollars are being used or abused .  the american people have a right to know how these dollars are spent .  and , two , by increasing investments in our war and defense efforts , we further constrain budgetary resources for investments in education , highways , community development , first responders , health care , public health and more .  what is at stake here is the very welfare of our states and communities , who find themselves financially strapped because of the economic policies of this administration .  our domestic economy can not continue to pursue this trend .  despite my many misgivings over this spending bill , i will vote for its passage .  we in congress must call on the defense department to provide better accountability for the spending decisions it makes .  mr. speaker , when h.r. 1268 was first considered on the floor in march , i reluctantly supported its passage .  now that the conference report has been returned to the house for this chamber 's approval , i still find myself torn because i do not see how additional funding for the iraq war effort will ultimately produce a positive outcome for the united states or for the people in iraq .  i want a successful exit strategy -- not a permanent occupation in iraq .  despite my misgivings for the direction of our iraq policy , or lack thereof , i do not believe our troops , who are fighting so bravely , should be penalized for the mistakes in judgment of our civilian military leadership at the white house and the pentagon .  as we speak , our ground forces scrounge for scrap metal to make the unarmored vehicles more safe against insurgent attack .  the funds provided in this bill will enable our soldiers and marines on the ground to uparmor their vehicles .  there should be more outrage from the american public that they were deployed without adequate equipment from the beginning .  but they are there .  it is vital that our troops receive the equipment they need to defend themselves against attack .  i have been critical of our war planning from the outset .  i voted against the authority that allowed the president to take action in iraq .  i continue to be frustrated that our war plan still contains no game plan on when we can begin to bring our troops home .  i am pleased that the bill does contain provisions that require the administration to develop a set of performance indicators and measures for determining the stability and security in iraq and report its findings to congress .  this requirement falls well short of the exit strategy we need to determine how long our commitment in iraq will last .  the bill also funds tsunami relief , which is well overdue .  the agreement appropriates $ 656 million in direct assistance to tsunami disaster relief for countries affected by last december 's tragedy .  the total includes $ 5 million to support environmental recovery activities ; $ 10 million to create new economic opportunities for women ; and $ 12.5 million to support initiatives that focus on the immediate and long-term needs of children .  the bill provides $ 400 million for humanitarian assistance in the darfur region of sudan and elsewhere in africa , including funds for the temporary resettlement of refugees .  it also funds $ 240 million for international humanitarian food assistance through the food for peace program , much of which will go to the darfur region .  this assistance will provide some relief to those who are being victimized by the ethnic cleansing that is being waged against the black muslim population by the arab muslim-dominated sudanese government .  in a period when the president and this congress proposes reductions in programs that support the development of local communities and neighborhoods , the bill provides $ 592 million for a gold-plated embassy compound in iraq .  i find it very difficult to defend such spending when the budget priorities of this administration propose disinvesting in our cities , towns and our american workforce .  money for this project goes beyond providing office and working space for u.s. foreign service personnel .  what we are proposing to build is not an embassy , but a compound , with stores and other amenities which will further distance our american embassy personnel from the iraqi civilian and political population .  we are constructing a fortress , not an embassy .  i want a successful exit strategy -- not a permanent occupation in iraq .  another key element of this agreement with which i take issue is the mandate imposed on states that requires certain identification standards on driver 's licenses for federal identification purposes .  the measure mandates that states meet certain requirements for determining the validity of persons applying for drivers ' licenses .  although the bill provides authority for states to receive federal grants to comply , it is insufficient and amounts to an unfunded federal mandate .  the money contained in this bill will go a long way to saving lives , saving the lives of our land forces in iraq and afghanistan and reconstructing the lives of those who experienced the devastation of last year 's tsunami .  after weighing the alternatives , i reluctantly support the passage of this bill .  i am not happy with the choices we are making today .  i feel backed into a corner without much wiggle room , but the lives of our troops matter to me and they deserve the protection this bill is designed to deliver to them .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief , 2005 .  i have had the opportunity to visit iraq twice over the last 2 years and visit with our military women and men and survey the operations of the u.s. reconstruction mission in iraq .  never have i been more proud to be an american than when i visited our troops and observed them in the line of duty .  my trips reconfirmed that we must give our troops the tools and resources they need to carry out their mission safely and effectively so they can return home soon .  for this reason i am supporting the administration 's supplemental request for $ 81 billion .  specifically , i would like to highlight the good work of the 128th infantry division out of western wisconsin , and the 1158th transportation company out of tomah , black river falls , and beliot .  the 128th is on their first tour of duty in iraq and is performing well , despite several equipment shortages and setbacks the unit has dealt with .  the 1158th is on their second tour of duty , and is also performing above and beyond their mission .  i am extraordinarily proud of their service to our country .  i am especially proud of young men like andrew carter .  today i had the opportunity to visit andrew , a member of the 128th , at walter reed hospital .  he was recently injured in iraq riding in a humvee that was hit by an rpg .  there is a good chance he would have been killed if it had n't been for vehicle armor that was added to the humvee .  this supplemental appropriates more funding to continue to armor humvees , so that we can continue to save lives .  one of the first things andrew said to me was that he wants to heal quickly so he can get back to iraq and serve with his unit .  his resolve is a good reminder of the dedication of our men and women in uniform and why we need to renew our commitment to soldiers like andrew .  while i do not endorse all of the supplemental 's provisions , in the absence of a funding alternative , i support the need to provide for our troops .  but we do need to start budgeting and paying for their obligations , such as the need for a new embassy in iraq , instead of passing so-called `` emergency '' supplementals and leaving a legacy of debt for our children to inherit .  as our military effort continues , i and other members of congress will work to ensure that our service men and women have all the resources necessary to fulfill their mission .  again , my thoughts and prayers are with those serving our country , as well as their families .  america is firmly behind our troops and we 're all hoping to see them home safe , secure , and soon .  may god continue to bless these united states of america .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding me time .  i thank the chairman for leading on this most important issue .  on september 11 , our nation suffered the most horrible attack ever on american soil at the hands of those with a deep-seated , enduring hatred for freedom .  since that day , we have made great strides in improving our nation 's security , but several gaps leave our nation vulnerable to attacks , just like those we suffered that day .  the real id bill would close loopholes and make americans more secure .  the situation in california where a state environmental commission is blocking a national security barrier from being finished must be remedied .  a 3-mile gap remains in a fence which would prevent people from crossing over our southern border in an area that is home to a military base .  half a million people are caught there each year trying to get across , and that does not include those who get on through .  they are their own environmental problem as well .  the real id bill would give the secretary of homeland security the authority he needs to ensure that our national security is not compromised for dubious environmental concerns .  our asylum system presently welcomes fraud by those who seek to do our nation harm .  the real id bill would allow our immigration judges to use common sense to protect americans while still providing a safe harbor for those who truly need refuge in our country .  it is outrageous that we can keep people out of this country based upon terrorist links , but the minute they are in this country , we can not deport them .  the real id bill would fix this problem , which poses a great danger to our citizens .  perhaps most importantly , our nation 's security will remain at risk so long as we give validity to those who are in our nation illegally in the form of state driver 's licenses and other id 's .  driver 's licenses in our country are de facto id cards .  they allow people to blend in , move freely , rent apartments , go to work , board airplanes .  if states do not require some valid form of u.s. government-issued id to get a driver 's license , any person could walk in off the street and claim to be a legal alien in search of a license , and be granted one .  to say that this is not an issue of national security is beyond the limits of reasonability .  the real id bill would ensure those to whom we issue government ids and driver 's licenses are in the u.s. legally and make it more likely that those to whom we issue id 's do not intend to harm americans .  we must close these loopholes .  i thank the chairman and i ask the congress to act .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i want to address a number of numbers here .  this is a little bit about numbers , and one of them is that 121 organizations that we heard about , as if they were the ones that should obstruct the safety of 282 million americans whose lives are at risk .  another number , 19 terrorist hijackers , 19 .  nineteen of them with 63 , another number , 63 valid driver 's licenses in their possession .  any one of those driver 's licenses got them anything they needed to do in america , full rights of citizenship for that matter , and get on board any airplane .  and another number , 3 , 000 dead americans .  and what have we done to close the door ?  anything ?  have we even said `` no '' to the 121 organizations that say , leave the door wide open , keep us at risk because somehow or another there is some kind of tone here that we object to ?  we think something is in your heart .  we need to close this door .  and what have we done ?  we have made it harder for terrorists to get on airplanes with razor blades .  we spent millions of dollars on metal detectors and millions of dollars expanding tsa and putting federal employees in place , and we put millions of people in long lines waiting to get through .  so it is a little harder for them ; they have to stand in line with the rest of us .  stand in line with the rest of us where i stand , where i see a 75-year-old lady going through a spread-eagle search while the young middle eastern male waltzes through with a smirk on his face , and we can not close that door .  this bill does some of that , not all of that , but it will be the first thing that will keep the 19-type terrorist hijackers off our airplanes , keep them out of our airplanes , out of our automobiles and provide a measure of safety and security for the american people .  it is not enough , but it is the barest of common sense , and it must move through this congress , and it must move through this congress right now , today .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the supplemental appropriations bill , and i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  for yielding me time .  i want to commend the gentleman for putting together what i believe is an excellent bill and for his leadership in reviewing each single element of the administration 's request .  the subcommittee on transportation , treasury , and hud that i chair has mostly technical items in this supplemental that are not controversial , so i would like to focus my comments on the overall bill .  in the past few months , we have seen an extraordinary progress in iraq and in the middle east at large .  from the historic iraqi elections , the new palestinian leadership , voting in saudi arabia , and massive demonstrations in lebanon against their syrian occupiers , i believe that these events show major positive changes that can come to this part of the world .  we must maintain that momentum , and that is what this bill does .  by passing this legislation , we will keep our soldiers in iraq fully equipped as they continue their daunting task in maintaining security and training iraqis to take over those functions .  the funding included in this bill to secure a new united states embassy will help get us out of the palaces that we currently occupy .  we will provide much-needed assistance to afghanistan in its efforts to become more secure , restrict the drug trade , and develop its economy .  this is a good bill , and it deserves our support .  i would like to comment specifically on one part of the supplemental that i know many of us are concerned about , and that is the $ 200 million to aid the palestinian authority .  the palestinians have an opportunity to get their house in order , and we should help them .  prime minister abbas and finance minister fayyad are the right people for their jobs , but we all know that the palestinian authority still needs a great deal of reform , and we need to be careful about how we provide money to help the palestinians .  that is why under the direction and leadership of the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  , we included specific conditions for how this money can be used .  we maintain the prohibition on direct assistance to the palestinian authority .  we require the administration to provide a comprehensive report on the steps taken by the palestinian authority on good governance , economic reforms , and dismantling the terrorist organizations .  and we require an audit of the palestinian authority 's financial structures .  providing this money sends an important signal that the u.s. is prepared to help the palestinians .  including the appropriate conditions sends an equally important signal that the palestinian authority has expectations that must be met .  the committee should be commended for handling this issue in a balanced and effective way ; and i urge everyone , obviously , to support it .  mr. chairman , again i say , this is a good bill , it is a necessary bill , and i urge again all of my colleagues to support it .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the passage of h.r. 418 .  many of these protections that are contained in this legislation are long overdue .  they are necessary to protect our homeland .  in particular , i am supportive of the provisions that deal with enhancing our driver 's licenses by providing for some uniformity in the standards used to issue those driver 's licenses and for finishing the border fence in southern california .  we ought not to let some vague problem of the environment keep us from finishing this important part of our border security .  but that is one step in the process of border security .  i am serious about the problem of border security .  i represent a district that has more apprehensions of illegal immigrants than any other district on the southern border , in fact , more apprehensions than all the other districts combined .  as someone working hard for a long time to help secure our border , i can confidently say the most effective and efficient way to deal with this is to have comprehensive immigration reform .  the president of the united states has recognized this .  we need to create an avenue for those not crossing for malicious reasons to be funneled through the ports-of-entry along the border .  that will allow us to deal with the real problem .  mr. chairman , i urge us to support h.r. 418 , and then turn our attention to comprehensive immigration reform legislation .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i want to congratulate the gentleman on this , his first bill to be brought to the floor of the house of representatives .  i think it is indicative of the good work that he and his staff are doing .  mr. chairman , i want to talk about the funding of programs that are under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee that i chair , that is , the subcommittee on foreign operations , export financing and related programs .  it totals $ 2.7 billion .  however , approximately $ 1 billion of that is offset with a cut to previously appropriated funds .  the remaining $ 1.75 billion is provided as emergency spending and includes $ 656 million for tsunami recovery .  the committee 's overall recommendation for all the programs under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee on foreign operations , export financing and related programs is $ 1.2 billion less than the president requested .  however , with the $ 1 billion offset , less than half of the president 's request will impact the federal deficit .  let me say once again that i do strongly support the objectives that the president seeks to achieve with this request as it relates to afghanistan , the middle east , the ukraine and the tsunami-devastated areas of asia .  but i did tell chairman lewis that i would scrutinize this request , and the result of that scrutiny is what is before the members today .  we have assigned the highest priority to programs that can be implemented and executed during 2005 and that are not likely to be funded by other donors .  the resulting recommendation is a balanced approach to supporting the president 's request and provides much-needed emergency appropriations to further the fight against terror and provide disaster assistance .  let me explain further the recommendation for the programs under the foreign operations jurisdiction .  we broke the president 's request down into three different categories .  the first includes programs that are true emergencies , such as replenishment of funds that were reprogrammed previously for tsunami disaster assistance and poppy eradication in afghanistan , funds for the humanitarian crisis in darfur and in asia , and funds to train afghan police , funds that are necessary to improve conditions that would enable us to bring our troops home as soon as possible .  total emergency spending under this first category is $ 1.75 billion , as i already indicated .  the second category of funds includes those programs requested by the president that we have determined to not be an emergency , but are important to u.s. leadership abroad .  additionally , this category includes reconstruction resources to stabilize and improve conditions in afghanistan and the middle east which support our efforts to bring our troops home , funds to support the democratic movement and government in ukraine , and funds for programs in the west bank and gaza .  we have provided $ 995 million in this second category of nonemergency spending and have offset these funds with the rescission of prior foreign assistance appropriations , specifically funds that were appropriated for turkey in the fiscal year 2003 supplemental bill .  i think my colleagues recognize that we are faced with unique opportunities in the middle east and afghanistan .  our leadership can have positive influence in both the west bank and gaza , in ukraine , in indonesia and sri lanka and , of course , in afghanistan .  i saw a press report recently from indonesia , the world 's most populous muslim country , that showed that the backing for osama bin laden had dropped from 58 percent in 2003 to 23 percent today .  i believe part of that is due to the efficiency and the generosity of u.s. relief efforts after the december tsunami .  as chairman of the foreign operations , export financing and related programs subcommittee , i am repeatedly reminded of how much we as a nation do each year to provide disaster assistance and relief .  it is encouraging to know that at least one important muslim country has started to take notice .  finally , the last category includes programs requested by the administration that we determined were less urgent and could be considered in the 2006 budget process .  this category totals $ 1.2 billion in funding and includes fiscal year 2006 operating costs of our programs overseas and large construction projects that can either wait for consideration or would have a possible revenue stream , making them ideal projects for world bank and asian development bank funding .  these programs total $ 616 million for afghanistan , $ 200 million for the new global war on terror partners fund , the new $ 200 million solidarity fund , and $ 45 million in debt relief for countries affected by the december tsunami .  let me say that the funds we are providing in the foreign assistance chapter must be considered an investment in security both in the region and on american soil .  it is also a responsibility to our future .  we must not be faced 20 years in the future with the knowledge that we looked at the opportunities of a taliban-free afghan government , a democracy-oriented government in the ukraine , a middle east craving freedom and representative government , only to turn away and leave them to their own meager means with no u.s. influence .  mr. chairman , i urge that this legislation be adopted .  i believe that this is a good bill and a well written one .  mr. chairman , i just want to clarify one point the gentleman from massachusetts made about the $ 8.8 billion , and i just think we members need to understand we are talking about funds that came not from the united states taxpayers , but those $ 8.8 billion are funds from the iraqi fund , which was iraqi dinars that had been collected as a result of oil sales .  it was a chaotic situation at the end of the war , as we all know , and ministries had collapsed .  there was no communication .  there were no accounting systems .  the bureaucrats had not functioned for years .  it was very difficult , at the very best , to know how to handle those in the very best way .  it was really a choice of whether or not we were going to get the projects done as quickly as possible and get the country functioning again .  so i think , to me , the choice was fairly clear .  i just want to make people understand we are not talking about u.s. dollars when we talk about the 8.8 .  is that the one we are considering ?  is that the understanding of the chair ?  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman raising this point , and i want to make it very clear that religious organizations may compete on an equal footing for usaid funding in this bill , as they may for usaid funding in other bills .  so the answer to the gentleman 's question is yes .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 .  i would like to thank the committee leadership for their efforts to provide our men and women in uniform with the equipment that they need to succeed .  as a member of the house armed services committee , i have worked with my colleagues to provide much-needed force protection equipment to our troops .  h.r. 1268 includes $ 75 million for body armor , $ 51 million for up-armored humvees , and $ 611 million for add-on armor kits for vehicles .  having visited our wounded soldiers at walter reed army medical center , i know that we can prevent further injuries by funding this important equipment , and i appreciate the committee 's efforts in this area .  furthermore , the bill raises the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 and increases subsidized life insurance benefits from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 for families of service members who died or were killed on active duty , retroactive to october 7 , 2001 .  as a cosponsor of legislation to increase the military death gratuity , i believe we must appropriately honor those that have made the ultimate sacrifice , and these benefit increases are one small gesture that congress can make to demonstrate our respect .  this legislation also demonstrates our nation 's commitment to aiding those in dire need throughout the world .  h.r. 1268 includes $ 656 million for disaster relief to the victims of the tsunami as well as essential peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance to darfur .  however , i was deeply disappointed that the house leadership used a procedural move to attach the language of the real id act , which i opposed when the house considered it in february .  the real id act would significantly alter our nation 's asylum and immigration laws in the name of homeland security , though its provisions went far beyond the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  the senate has already registered some opposition to the real id provisions , and i fear that their inclusion in the house 's supplemental bill will slow down the process and prevent us from sending assistance to those who need it most .  our primary responsibility should be to assist our men and women in uniform and to fulfill our promises to the nations that were devastated in the december tsunami .  i urge my colleagues to move swiftly to pass this measure and to drop any extraneous provisions that would hinder this important funding .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , as the daughter of a veteran , 25 years in the army , i want to express my profound respect and appreciation for our brave men and women serving on the ground in iraq .  they have a very difficult job , and all of us pray for their safe return , and many of us want them home very quickly .  the administration 's request for an additional $ 82 billion brings the total war funding to nearly $ 300 billion .  we must continue to ask just where has this money gone ?  for example , the coalition provisional authority was unable to account for about $ 9 billion , and that is just what we know .  where did that money go ?  we deserve to know .  the american people deserve to know what our tax dollars have paid for .  did that $ 9 billion go , for example , to protect our troops ?  we have no idea .  another important question is , are we safer today than when this war began ?  the answer is plainly no .  if one believed the administration , the goal of the war was to prevent weapons of mass destruction from falling into the hands of terrorists and that iraq posed an immediate threat to the united states .  now it appears that this unnecessary war may have actually increased that threat .  instead of stopping terrorism , this administration 's policies have allowed it to expand .  according to the national intelligence council , this administration 's war has turned iraq into a breeding ground for islamic terrorists .  before the war on iraq , there was no connection , no connection , between saddam hussein and al qaeda .  now there is .  congress requires the administration to give a thorough accounting of how our tax dollars have been spent pursuing these policies in iraq and what the administration 's expectations are for future expenses .  and despite this law , the administration has flatly refused to make this accounting to us , to the american people , or to determine what the future costs will be .  we know , however , what has been overlooked .  there is a documented failure to provide our troops with both body armor and armored vehicles .  there are documented cases of waste and fraud perpetrated by contractors like halliburton .  mr. chairman , it is the height of hypocrisy for members of congress to say that they support our troops and then fail to insist on the accountability of how these funds are being spent and whether or not the previous resources allocated were spent to protect our troops .  if one asks me , the bush administration just wants another blank check .  no oversight , no accountability , and they have failed to provide a concrete plan for how our troops will stabilize the situation in iraq and to bring our troops home .  mr. chairman , this administration has much to account for .  there have been too many blank checks and not enough accountability .  i will vote against the supplemental and urge my colleagues to do the same .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , it is with great pride that i bring before the house h.r. 1268 , a bill making emergency supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2005 .  this is my first appropriations measure as the new appropriations committee chairman .  i am especially proud of the extraordinary effort put forth by the committee 's members and staff to report a bill that will better permit our troops to prosecute the war on terrorism and will do so with a price tag less than that requested by the president .  mr. chairman , i would like to have the house pay special attention to three of my colleagues who have come back from the private sector to help serve this committee .  frank cushing is my staff director , and david lesstrang and jeff shockey are my deputy staff directors for the committee .  i really appreciate their willingness to make great sacrifice to come back .  six of the committee 's 10 subcommittees participated in the development of this measure which provides $ 81.27 billion in urgent and emergency spending .  the lion 's share of that amount , some $ 76.8 billion , is for defense-related expenditures .  this funding represents an increase for defense needs of $ 1.8 billion above the president 's request , which i hasten to note is entirely for enhanced support for deployed , soon-to-be deployed , or returning troops in order to assist in force protection and to increase the survivability of the troops in the field .  to provide these important resources for our troops , we reduced other , nonessential dod requests by some $ 600 million as well as nearly $ 1 billion in foreign assistance-related programs that were either not well justified or did not meet the strict definition we applied for emergency spending .  in addition , another $ 1 billion of extremely important and time-sensitive non-emergency foreign assistance approved by the committee was completely offset by a rescission of funds originally appropriated in fiscal year 2003 .  with my colleagues ' indulgence , i would like to take a few moments to give the house a flavor of the urgent procurement needs that the committee has included in the measure for our troops .  those include up-armored humvees and other new humvees , medium and heavy trucks , night vision devices , handheld stand-off mine detection systems , jammers , improved high-frequency radios , strykers to replace combat losses , add-on armor kits , small-arms modifications and ammunition , body armor for both the army and marine corps , and medical supplies .  in addition to our providing these necessary resources for our troops , the committee was compelled to fully fund the army 's modularity program at this time because of the urgency to address the significant challenges the army now faces in mitigating stress on the current active duty combat force .  to meet this problem , the army will not only create 10 additional combat brigades ; all of the current combat brigades will be redesigned to enhance their ability to deploy more rapidly and operate more independently on the battlefield .  i might add that our determination to procure additional equipment beyond the president 's request will allow forthcoming troop rotations to receive much of their equipment prior to deployment , clearly an obvious benefit to the success of our troops .  beyond the requirements of our defense community , the bill provides $ 656 million to meet the human needs resulting from last december 's horrific tsunami .  in addition , the bill includes $ 592 million for the construction of the u.s. embassy compound in baghdad .  while that money for the embassy is a reduction of some $ 66 million , or 10 percent , from the president 's request , construction of the embassy compound has been deemed urgent because of the imminent security threats to some 4 , 000 u.s. personnel in iraq .  thus far , 45 personnel with the u.s. mission in iraq have been killed , including two american citizens who were killed by a rocket attack on our diplomatic compound the day of the iraqi elections .  providing the funds now will greatly reduce the amount of time our personnel remain in harm 's way .  despite the additional needs we have recommended on behalf of our troops , the committee 's bill is $ 614 million less than that requested by the president .  this reduction comes largely as a result of reductions in proposed foreign assistance spending .  mr. chairman , i believe this measure is responsible both in how we have responded to the needs to provide for adequate resources in making this fight against terrorism and also in how we have carefully scrubbed each and every program so that we can say with utmost assurance that this is a fiscally sound piece of legislation .  mr. chairman , as i close my remarks , i wish to express my deep appreciation for my ranking member from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , as well as to each and every member of the committee .  i have already expressed my feelings about our staff on both sides of the aisle .  all of them have worked so diligently to prepare effectively this legislation .  mr. chairman , as i mentioned at the outset , i am very proud of this measure i bring to you , my first measure as chairman of the committee on appropriations .  i certainly urge the members to adopt this bill .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  i appreciate my colleague yielding .  i know he will continue with his statement .  i want the body to know that i very much share his concern .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and i have discussed this issue .  he expresses his concern very clearly ; as did the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  .  it has been my privilege to work with the gentleman for years , and i know of his commitment to the department and our work .  indeed the administration does owe us the courtesy of adequate and appropriate response time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i would take a moment to suggest to the gentleman that he may not be aware of it because he does not serve on those subcommittees , but there were at least six hearings in a variety of subcommittees and other meetings regarding this matter before we got organized .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  at this point i see none on the floor .  mr. chairman , i have no additional speakers .  i will make closing remarks on the general debate .  mr. chairman , i do .  of course .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  i do so in order to have a very brief discussion with the gentleman who is chairman of the authorizing committee .  i think many of you in the house know that i spent a lot of years in my life making an honest living in the life and health insurance business so i know a little bit about this subject .  the gentleman is raising a number of questions that are very legitimate questions .  i do not think there is a conflict here .  i just wanted the gentleman to know that it is my intention to examine these serious questions between now and the time we go to conference .  i am absolutely certain we can at least clear the air on any remaining problems between now and then .  reclaiming my time , let us not describe what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did .  we will be here for hours .  either we do this my way or we do not .  reclaiming my time , the gentleman can then , in this complex field , understand when he used the term `` restrict '' that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  might be a bit disconcerted .  does the gentleman see what i am saying ?  reclaiming my time , it would be my intention for us to have serious discussions including the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and his staff and our people so that we know that the air is cleared .  reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman from wisconsin 's ( mr. obey )  point .  in the meantime , i believe we will have some work to do in the weeks ahead and i look forward to working with the gentleman and with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and others to solve this problem .  i have asked for a ruling of the chair .  mr. chairman , i would simply say it is our intention to pursue the questions the gentlewoman is asking .  it may very well be in conference on the supplemental that it is appropriate , but frankly in some ways we take from peter to pay paul .  we can pursue this is regular order , and i prefer to use the supplemental process for those emergencies that we can not deal with in regular order .  because of that , i am not pursuing the recommendations at this time .  we will follow through , however , on the questions that the gentlewoman is asking .  mr. chairman , i insist on my point of order .  mr. chairman , in that event , i withdraw my point of order .  madam chairman , speaking further on the point of order , i would simply , calmly say to the gentleman that i very much agree , as the entire house agrees , that we must be responsive to the medical needs of our veterans , especially those who are coming back at this very moment .  there is not any doubt that the new military quality of life and veterans affairs , and related agencies subcommittee is designed in the fashion to be very responsive to the needs of veterans .  i urge the gentleman to recognize that we have begun hearings in connection with that already .  it is our intention in regular order to move these bills very quickly , and there is absolutely no doubt that the needs of these veterans , beyond money that is already in the pipeline , will be met as a result of regular order .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i am sure all members are very concerned about the proposed embassy compound in iraq and the number of dollars that are involved .  i think it is very important that i share with members our discussion with the secretary of state .  she feels it is absolutely critical that we move forward very quickly with this money , first and foremost because we have almost 4 , 000 american personnel whose lives are in jeopardy under current conditions .  indeed , if this compound goes forward quickly , their security will be assured .  the secretary has been given great assurance that the compound can be completed in 24 months .  there is only one small hook , and that is in order to get a contractor to bid on such a job in this territory , the money has to be there in the pot .  so within this bill we are providing the funds to make sure the funds are available and we can move quickly .  this embassy and the compound are designed to solidify our mission , allowing us to be successful in iraq as well as the middle east .  it is very important that we go forward with this money now .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i withdraw my point of order .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. pearce )  having assumed the chair , mr. gilchrest , acting chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 1268 ) making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2005 , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon .  mr. chairman , i want to say upfront to the house that it is not my intention to speak on the time i have reserved in opposition to this proposition , so i am asking for a chance for an exchange here with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and i have spent a good deal of time behind closed doors in appropriate security to discuss matters like this , but especially to express our concern that the department of defense communicate regularly with the congress relative to activities that might involve areas that are , indeed , secure .  i have never told the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  this before , but i will never forget as a mere member of the subcommittee on defense and a member of the intelligence committee discussing a program that was in the black that i knew about because i happened to be in the back room , but a program that the department of defense was not very excited about .  we ended up advancing some money to have that program go forward .  i have no idea if we would have been unsuccessful with that effort if they had known how serious we were .  it is important that we communicate with each other .  communication is a two-way street not a one-way street .  so for those listening across the river , it is very important to know that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  is serious about this , and the leadership of the house is serious about it as well .  mr. chairman , i am trying to remember , what is the name of that hospital .  i am trying to remember .  san diego veterans medical center in la jolla .  and does it happen to be in the gentleman 's district ?  mr. chairman , it is my understanding that hospital needs a lot of work .  i assume the gentleman suggests that veterans ought to be first in line if we do some refurbishing ?  and was the gentleman involved in that ?  mr. chairman , i would ask the gentleman , did we successfully get money for that seismic retrofitting ?  mr. chairman , i wish the gentleman would have discussed that with me at the time .  we had a similar problem at loma linda veterans medical center , the sister hospital of the jerry pettis veterans hospital , and we found a way to do seismic retrofitting by way of using a laser .  no portion of the hospital needs to be closed down while the work is being done .  thereby , patients can actually be in the hospital while the work is being done .  we did not have that discussion .  mr. chairman , has the gentleman visited that hospital in the last years ?  in the last year ?  mr. chairman , i attempt to visit my hospital regularly as well .  and , indeed , visit the veterans who are now back at walter reed or bethesda .  indeed , we all should be concerned about that priority .  but , frankly , i am a bit incensed by the gentleman 's suggestion yesterday that would indicate that we do not give priority on a bipartisan basis to veterans .  i would ask the gentleman to join me in a special mission .  would the gentleman consider the mission ?  mr. chairman , the mission is the veterans service organizations are a great voice for veterans here in washington .  like the gentleman , they are constantly pounding their chest saying , i am calling for money , more opportunity for veterans .  i insist that they help us go back to where the hospitals are and see that veterans are treated like real human beings in those hospitals .  i can not get the vsos to do it .  maybe i can get the gentleman to do it because the gentleman is obviously more concerned than the vsos are about those veterans benefits and the way they are being treated .  mr. chairman , i ask , would the gentleman from california ( mr. filner )  join me in that effort , or does the gentleman believe the money is being spent very well at veterans hospitals ?  mr. chairman , i reclaim my time .  ... ..  who says we do not have enough money ?  ... ..  how much time do i have remaining , mr. chairman ?  i appreciate the gentlewoman from new york yielding .  como esta .  mr. speaker , i rise to claim the time in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit largely because i believe on both sides of the aisle the body recognizes that the reason for this supplemental is to provide as quickly as possible money flows in support of our troops .  this is a supplemental dealing with our challenges in the middle east especially .  it is a supplemental dealing with the crises that have resulted from the tsunami .  but , in the meantime , the gentlewoman is suggesting that we should recommit this bill to add $ 150 million .  the best thing that we can do for our troops is to move this bill very quickly and send it on its way for a conference with the senate .  there is absolutely no question that to have a recommittal motion be successful that would add $ 150 million to an $ 82 billion package , the vast percentage of which is in support of our troops , at best is a technical exercise .  to recommit for the sake of recommitting is not a reflection of how seriously we are taking the challenge we have of supporting our troops .  so i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit , and i urge members on both sides of the aisle to recognize that we must move forward with this supplemental .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 258 , i call up the conference report on the bill ( h.r. 1268 ) making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2005 , to establish and rapidly implement regulations for state driver 's license and identification document security standards , to prevent terrorists from abusing the asylum laws of the united states , to unify terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility and removal , to ensure expeditious construction of the san diego border fence , and for other purposes .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am pleased to bring to the house for its consideration the conference report on h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror and tsunami relief .  the conference agreement includes a total of $ 82 billion .  the vast majority of these funds are to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan .  for that reason , it is critical that we move this package quickly .  it also provides needed assistance to the victims of the tsunami .  during our conference with the senate , chairman cochran and i agreed that the final agreement should come in at or below the president 's request and relatively free of extraneous items .  the conference report before you has met both of these very critical parameters .  we did our very best to keep the package clean , and by and large , we were successful with that .  we have funded our foreign policy priorities while still preserving congressional prerogatives where appropriate .  with that said , the conference report provides a total of $ 75.9 billion for defense-related expenditures , roughly $ 921 million over the president 's request .  the additions over the request are for force protection , and increasing the survivability of troops in the field .  in addition to the defense-related spending , the conference report provides a reduction of $ 1.5 billion in foreign assistance from the president 's request .  the conference agreement also includes $ 635 million for increased border security enforcement .  this includes 500 additional border patrol agents and increased detention space .  we have also included $ 656 million for tsunami disaster relief .  finally , the bill includes much of the real id act of 2005 , which was included in the house-passed version of the bill .  the provisions on asylum , border infrastructure , and driver 's license standards are included .  each of these provisions will greatly enhance the security of our borders .  all of these provisions reflect agreements negotiated by relevant authorizing committees .  i especially want to thank chairman sensenbrenner , chairman davis and their staffs for getting this measure before the congress in a timely fashion .  i urge my colleagues to support this much needed support for our troops .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the gentleman from pennsylvania for one of the most illuminating , but also one of the longest , statements i have ever heard him make on the floor .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , let me begin by saying that while i very strongly oppose my colleague from wisconsin 's motion to recommit , the gentleman was kind enough to share the recommittal motion with us before the fact , and i am very much appreciative of that .  the greatest difficulty i have with the motion is that at this moment our forces are on gas fumes , rather than real gasoline .  it is very , very critical that we get this bill moving towards the president 's desk and to the troops as quickly as possible .  i would like to speak for a moment about some of those things that the bill does that may be of great interest to the members who are concerned especially about border security .  within this package there are some 500 border patrol agents , added as a result of this measure as it goes to the president 's desk .  there are 218 immigration enforcement agents and criminal investigators .  there are some 1 , 950 detention beds .  the bill is designed to take every step that we possibly can on short order to secure our border .  at the same time , just yesterday the subcommittee on homeland security marked up their 2006 bill to move further down this same pathway .  we are moving very quickly to strengthen and secure our borders by way of this legislation , as well as regular order .  from there , mr. speaker , let me express my deepest appreciation to members on both sides of the aisle who have worked very hard , their staffs , as well as the members themselves , to make sure that this supplemental would arrive on time and ahead of schedule .  virtually nobody thought we would be here at this moment .  the reason we are is because the members recognize how critical it is that we get this support to our troops immediately .  mr. speaker , i very much appreciate my colleagues ' patience as we work quickly on this bill .  it is a very good bill .  i urge my colleagues ' support .  mr. chairman , yesterday , the u.s. commission on international religious freedom , a federally mandated bipartisan commission , released a comprehensive report documenting the mistreatment of asylees in america .  for those seeking asylum , we strip-search them and then we thrown them in jail with criminals .  as we debate this bill , thousands of people seeking safety from persecution are in jail with criminals in the united states .  they are here fleeing from torture , from rape ; some are here seeking freedom because they have been denied the opportunity to practice their religion , say christianity , in a place where religion is not permitted .  but when they get here , we lock them up .  and today we are considering a bill that will make it harder for those fleeing oppression , trying to find safe haven in our nation .  this bill does nothing to make us safer .  in fact , we have heard references to those who came prior to the first world trade center bombing .  we made changes in the law subsequent to that .  that fix has already been done .  we do not need to do what is before us today .  so it is surprising we are not addressing today the shocking findings of the commission report .  mr. chairman , i want to say something else .  this bill , despite the protestations , is in fact creating a de facto national id card .  it establishes one type of id that most americans will carry .  all our information will be held in databases linked together and readymade for use by the federal government .  how much will they really know about each and every one of you ?  this is not just about immigrants , this is about all americans ; and i think we need a national conversation about whether we want that form of big brother .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the conference report .  and i would like to take a few minutes to express my support with some provisions included in the foreign operations chapter of this supplemental bill .  first and foremost , i am pleased that we have finally appropriated funding to address the earthquake and tsunami that devastated asia .  the images of destruction , parents separated from their children , whole villages flattened and emptied , livelihoods washed away , touched the american people deeply and brought out the most generous and humanitarian impulses in us all .  i am disappointed , however , that it has taken congress so long to respond officially on behalf of the united states , but i am happy that we finally have a robust package of aid to offer affected nations .  i want to thank chairman kolbe , senators mcconnell and leahy for responding to my request to ensure that the needs of women and children around the world are addressed in this supplemental .  of the $ 656 million included in the bill for tsunami-related assistance , over 200 million will be dedicated to directly meet the needs of women and children , and much of the remainder of those funds will be of indirect benefit through the restoration of infrastructure needed , such as new schools and roads .  the bill also makes a strong statement about u.s. support for a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict .  it provides 200 million to help the palestinian people improve their economic situation .  i also want to thank chairman kolbe and my colleagues in the senate for agreeing to provide most of the $ 100 million added by the house for emergency needs in africa outside of sudan .  unfortunately , the horrible tragedy in sudan has meant the diversion of funds needed to address ongoing problems in the democratic republic of the congo , liberia , ethiopia , and uganda .  this 100 million , along with additional funds for public law 480 food aid , will go a long way toward easing the pain and hunger expressed by many women and children throughout africa .  while i have deep concerns about other provisions included in other sections of this supplemental , i am pleased with the shape of the foreign operations section .  i believe it goes a long way toward fulfilling our many commitments around the world .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time , and i rise in opposition to the so-called real id act of 2005 .  mr. chairman , while i have enormous respect for the gentleman from virginia , the chairman of the full committee , i must take exception to the assertions that have been made by a lot of speakers here today that somehow this bill will prevent or would have prevented the 9/11 attacks from occurring .  i just want to point out that regardless of the number of licenses that the terrorists held on september 11 , they were all obtained because those individuals were in the country legally on student visas .  and student visa holders in the future , even after this act is passed , will still have the opportunity to get licenses .  so that argument is indeed bogus .  but i want to talk about the most egregious parts of this bill .  under this bill , it would allow the secretary of the department of homeland security to nullify all of our laws while fulfilling his responsibilities under the scope of this act .  and putting aside the schizophrenic immigration policy we have heard from the republican party , you have a president that wants to have open borders and basically amnesty to allow open borders for low-wage workers to come in , and then you have a republican house that is saying that all those coming in must not have licenses .  they must be pedestrians .  mr. chairman , under this act , what this means for american citizens is , our civil rights laws will be set aside under this bill .  our nondiscrimination laws will be set aside under this bill .  our health and safety laws will be set aside under this bill .  our environmental laws will not apply under this bill .  and child labor laws will not apply under this bill .  most troubling of all , the public bidding laws of this country will not apply under this bill for this project .  right now on the committee that i serve with the esteemed chairman , we are investing no-bid contracts that were given to halliburton .  we have millions of dollars in overcharges to the united states taxpayer , we have bribery charges , and we are doing all kinds of investigation on that no-bid .  there is no reason that the civil rights laws and the public bidding laws should be set aside .  if that were not the most extreme example , they have removed any opportunity for judicial review under this act .  there will be no review of the secretary 's action in setting aside all of those laws , no recourse .  it is ironic , mr. chairman , that while we have our soldiers in uniform protecting democracy , we are giving it away under this bill .  yes .  mr. chairman , $ 3 million .  mr. chairman , more than a 150 , 000 women are currently pregnant in the tsunami-affected areas , including 50 , 000 anticipated to give birth during the next 3 months .  unfpa is determined to enhance the likelihood of deliveries occurring in safe and clean conditions by providing emergency care , basic supplies , and helping to rebuild health care facilities .  they are uniquely qualified to provide these services .  in fact , they are and have been on the ground since that tragic day , helping save the lives of women , children , and families .  with these funds , unfpa can provide safe delivery kits , such as the one i have here .  it includes basic supplies such as soap , plastic sheeting , razor blades , string and gloves , laundry detergent , dental supplies .  these are supplies that are needed to prevent and treat cases of violence against women and youth .  they also offer psychological support and counseling and promote access of unaccompanied women to vital services .  each of these areas is a serious problem and will go a long way towards helping save the lives of thousands of women and their children .  disasters put pregnant women at greater-than-normal risk because of the sudden loss of medical support .  mr. speaker , i recently presented a joint statement with senator snowe regarding small business contracting and would like to submit it for the record .  section 6022 of h.r. 1268 , as adopted in the conference report , h. rep .  109-72 , contains certain provisions concerning small business contracting at the department of energy .  these provisions were inserted as a substitute for section 6023 of the senate version of h.r. 1268 .  section 6023 , among other things sought to amend the small business act to authorize counting of small business subcontracts at the department of energy 's large prime contractors for purposes of reporting small business prime contracting results .  because the substitute language was not adopted by congress through regular legislative proceedings in the senate committee on small business and entrepreneurship and the house committee on small business but was adopted anew during the house-senate conference , the in subsections 6022 ( a ) and ( b ) , the language chosen to replace section 6023 in the conference report directs the department of energy and the small business administration to enter into a memorandum of understanding for reporting small business prime contracts and subcontracts at the department of energy .  this replacement language does not change the small business act 's clear distinction between prime contracts and subcontracts , does not amend the statutory small business prime contracting goal requirements which are binding on the department of energy , and does not obviate congressional and regulatory policies against contract bundling .  this language does not repeal the president 's executive order 13360 directing the department of energy to comply with its separate statutory prime contracting and subcontracting goals for awards to small businesses owned by service-disabled veterans .  any interpretation to the contrary would be unreasonable and contrary to congressional intent .  in subsection 6022 ( c ) , the replacement language mandates a study of changes to management prime contracts at the department of energy to encourage small business prime contracting opportunities .  the object of the study is to examine the feasibility of establishing a procurement agency relationship between the management prime contractors and the department of energy in accordance with the requirements of federal procurement laws , federal procurement regulations , the `` federal norm '' of government contracting as recognized by the comptroller general , and applicable judicial precedent such as u.s. west communications , inc .  v. united states , 940 f.2d 622 ( fed .  cir .  1991 ) .  finally , in subsection 6022 ( d ) , the replacement language imposes certain requirements upon the department of energy concerning break-outs of services from large prime contracts for awards to small businesses .  first , the secretary of energy is required to consider whether services performed have been previously provided by a small business concern .  this requirement is for acquisition planning purposes only , and shall not be construed as imposing a restriction of any kind on the ability of the department of energy to break out its large prime contracts for award to small businesses .  congress recognizes that most of work currently contracted by the department of energy to its large prime contractors has never been historically performed by small businesses .  however , this does not waive the application of the small business act , the president 's executive order 13360 , or the president 's initiative against contract bundling to the department of energy .  second , the secretary of energy is required mr. speaker , passage of this legislation demonstrates our commitment to our brave men and women in uniform and acknowledges that they need resources in order to accomplish their mission and return home safely .  it also offers support for the families when a loved one pays the ultimate sacrifice in the cause of fighting for freedom .  all along , i 've been concerned about the lack of progress reports coming from the pentagon .  this bill finally requires the pentagon to use real performance indicators to report to congress with our progress in terms of security , economic , and iraqi security force training goals .  the money that will go directly to help our troops is of course the most important part of this bill .  it increases the military death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 and increases life insurance benefits to $ 400 , 000 for families of soldiers killed while on active duty in iraq and afghanistan .  we 've all been hearing reports about the lack of adequate personal and vehicle armor .  congress has funded these critical protections in the past and we 're doing so once again in this bill .  i hope that this money will quickly be turned around to provide the needed add-on vehicle armor kits , new trucks , more night-vision equipment , and essential radio jammers to defeat the roadside bombs that are injuring and killing our troops almost every day .  our troops should not be compromised .  resolving the current instability in the region is in the long-term best interests of all americans -- failure in iraq would lead to irreparable consequences .  thousands of american troops have been in iraq for more than 2 years .  we have to take care of them and ensure that they can come back home as soon as possible .  mr. chairman , we know the right questions to ask : about iraq , the budget , waste , fraud and abuse by contractors including halliburton .  after seeing scenes from an iraqi prison , we know what we do n't know .  what are we going to do about all this ?  we know the right questions to ask , but we also know these questions will not be answered -- unless we reach back into recent history and reinstitute an independent , bi-partisan internal watchdog .  in the 1940s , the truman committee saved the government and the american people $ 15 billion dollars .  they asked the right questions and were empowered to get the answers .  the american people got what they paid for and someone made sure of it .  there was truth in government .  there was trust in government .  we do n't have that kind of faith , confidence , or oversight anymore .  instead of scrutiny , there is subterfuge .  already , america has spent $ 200 billion for the wars in iraq and afghanistan .  yet two years after the start of the war , many troops and their transports still do not have adequate protection .  this week , the administration will use the supplemental process to obtain new billions for iraq .  the fact is , the supplemental process carries less scrutiny than the normal budget process .  we know the right questions to ask , but getting the answers is a different story .  billions of dollars have been awarded in non-competitive contracts .  recently , the military acknowledged that 8 billion in cold , hard cash is missing in iraq .  it 's happened before in iraq , and unless something changes , there is no reason to believe it wo n't happen again .  halliburton has already been found to have overcharged the pentagon by billions of dollars for providing meals to soldiers and importing fuel .  they 're still getting paid and no one really knows if we are getting what the american people are paying for .  on a rare occasion , the defense secretary admits there is an issue ; quoting secretary rumsfeld : `` according to some estimates , we ( dod ) can not track $ 2.3 trillion in transactions. '' the pentagon 's own auditors admit that the military can not account for as much as 1/4 of what it spends .  defense makes up half of all the discretionary spending in the budget .  standard issue republican rhetoric decries waste , fraud and abuse .  well , it 's time to turn the rhetoric into a plan of action .  the truman committee eliminated corruption , profiteering and mismanagement .  it uncovered defective systems , improved efficiencies in existing programs , and freed up billions of dollars for more crucial procurement .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act .  it is unconscionable that the administration comes to congress for another emergency supplemental when it has failed to account for previous emergency funding , and has failed to include the cost of the war in the fy '06 budget .  how can this administration offer a budget that does not include funding for america 's military operations overseas when we have more than 150 , 000 soldiers in iraq and afghanistan for an indefinite period of time ?  why does the administration continue to resort to supplemental funding to pay for this war instead of including the cost in the budget where it will sufficiently reflect the impact of operations iraqi freedom and enduring freedom on our deficit ?  mr. chairman , i did not support the iraq supplemental request last year because i had serious concerns about no bid contracts in the bill .  unfortunately i was right to be concerned ; just today it has been reported that pentagon auditors have found excess billing for postwar fuel imports to iraq by the halliburton company totaling more than $ 108 million .  to add insult to injury congress has not received any of the nine auditing reports from the pentagon , but instead must resort to receiving this information through unofficial channels .  despite repeated requests , the administration has kept nine audits confidential from both republican and democratic members of congress .  accountability is a bipartisan issue .  this $ 81 billion emergency supplemental funding request for the department of defense 's iraq and afghanistan operations comes on the heels of $ 25 billion of emergency spending already appropriated for this year .  enacting this request would mean that this congress will have provided this administration with almost $ 300 billion for military and reconstruction efforts in afghanistan and iraq .  it is clear that this body is willing to live up to its end of the bargain and provide funding for our troops , but the administration is determined to continue to avoid serious questions and concerns about its spending .  let me state outright that i opposed going to war in iraq , but that is not my reason for opposing this supplemental request .  i oppose simply because we can not allow continued deception by the administration on every aspect of our engagement with iraq .  we were deceived with exaggeration of hussein 's weapons capabilities , and now we are being deceived about the duration of the engagement and its exact cost -- on the american purse and the loss of our men and women in uniform .  we have exacerbated the situation in the middle east and put our country in a more vulnerable position because of this war , and now we are asked to surrender the responsibilities of this body to hold the administration accountable for its actions .  mr. chairman as a member of congress i must provide answers to my constituents about the money that congress spends .  accountability is not a partisan issue , we must all demand answers .  our constitution was carefully crafted so as to allow a balance of power in our government .  congress is obligated to use appropriations and the oversight that accompanies it as a means of holding the executive branch accountable for its spending of american funds .  any attempt to usurp that balance of power is a betrayal of the moral fiber of our government and must be taken as an attack on the integrity of this body .  the department of defense by law must submit reports to congress with a detailed explanation of the spending and future costs of the iraq war .  these reports were due october of last year and at the beginning of this year .  despite this legal obligation clearly delineated in last year 's defense appropriations act , we have to date received no report accounting for the spending and detailing cost estimates of previous supplemental funding .  our government should not fail to meet its legal responsibility without consequence .  how can we justify more emergency appropriations without adequate assurance that what has already been appropriated has been shrewdly spent ?  sadly , we have no report directly from dod but the inspector general reported that almost $ 9 billion in reconstruction funding has been mishandled and poorly accounted for .  in fact , the inspector general suggests that thousands of `` ghost employees '' were on an unidentified ministry payroll .  in addition , dod has stated in the past that 220 , 000 iraq security forces had been trained and equipped , that number was then scaled down to 136 , 000 .  moreover , the pentagon has recently put into question if these troops are truly prepared for service .  mr. chairman , opposition to this bill is not a vote against supporting our troops .  this body has proven over and over again through appropriations that it supports our troops .  congress has appropriated $ 20 billion for iraq reconstruction despite the administration 's claims that iraq reconstruction would cost between $ 1 and $ 2 billion and could be financed by iraqi oil revenues .  with enactment of this bill congress will have appropriated $ 300 billion for the efforts in iraq without proper accounting of the spending of these funds .  the administration claimed that we would be received as great liberators and that just a few short months after the invasion we could start withdrawing troops , but instead we have no exit strategy and over 1 , 500 troops have died and thousands seriously injured .  i could go on and on about the disastrous miscalculations and misleading estimates .  this bill is critically lacking in accountability .  no more blank checks for this administration .  mr. chairman , as one of the conferees on the intelligence reform law enacted last december , i want to remind members that it contained 43 sections and 100 pages of immigration-related provisions .  these tough , but smart new measures enacted just 2 months ago include , among others , adding thousands of additional border patrol agents , immigration and customs investigators and detention beds , criminalizing the smuggling of immigrants and establishing tough minimum standards for driver 's licenses , just as the 9/11 commission recommended .  now we need to implement and fully fund these tough measures to ensure our nation 's safety .  unfortunately , the president 's budget chose not to fund the 2 , 000 new border patrol agents or 8 , 000 additional detention beds that were called for in the intelligence reform bill .  so much for being tough .  h.r. 418 would further undermine these tough measures by repealing several of these provisions .  the bill would repeal a gao study to ascertain any vulnerability in the current asylum system and replace it with new burdens that would be impossible for many true asylum seekers to meet .  proponents of this legislation have misled us by suggesting that different terrorists have received asylum .  no terrorist has ever been granted asylum in the united states .  we further ensured that terrorists would not be granted asylum with the administrative changes of 1995 and the expedited removal system done legislatively in 1996 .  now we detain anyone seeking asylum that arrives at our border without documents .  but asylum encourages citizens of other countries to fight for positive change in their own country , without risking u.s. military lives .  if their life is endangered , they should have a chance to seek asylum in the united states .  unfortunately , the legislation before us would make that nearly impossible .  finally , if a person is a terrorist , i do not want to deport them so they have another chance at doing harm to the united states .  i want to detain them , prosecute them , imprison them to the fullest extent of the law .  the bill would repeal the tough minimum standards for driver 's licenses called for by the 9/11 commission and included in the intelligence reform law with provisions that federalize all driver 's licenses , take away states ' rights , place huge unfunded mandates on the states , without advancing the paramount objective of making state-issued identity documents more secure and verifiable .  that is why the national conference of state legislatures strongly opposes this legislation .  mr. chairman , if you truly want to implement tough yet smart measures to ensure our nation 's security , vote down this legislation , and let us fully fund and implement the tough and smart provisions that were included in the intelligence reform bill .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from virginia for yielding me this time , and i rise today in very , very strong support of the identification reforms that are in this legislation .  these reforms , in my opinion , are extremely necessary to help us better protect our identity documents and to secure our borders .  this legislation will help america to better protect our nation from those who wish to do us harm .  no longer will we allow terrorists free access to state-issued identity documents as a way to use the tools of our freedom against us .  no longer will we stand idly by and watch terrorists harm our homeland .  state-issued driver 's licenses and state identification cards are the most widely used form of identification in the nation .  it is the backbone , quite frankly , of our identity .  it provides legitimacy to any person who holds this form of identification .  driver 's licenses are used in everyday instances , such as boarding an airplane or enrolling in a flight school .  does that sound familiar ?  well , it should .  because according to the 9/11 commission report , all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification documents , some by fraud .  all but one of the hijackers used a state-issued driver 's license on that horrific day .  even more frightening is the fact that a regular driver 's license is your passport to obtain a commercial driver 's license , from which then , of course , you can then try to obtain a hazardous materials license , an endorsement on your commercial driver 's license .  it is bad enough to think about giving terrorists access to our roadways and our aircraft , but it is unthinkable to give them access to 40 , 000 gallons of liquid propane , as an example .  this legislation also closes a loophole which has allowed illegal aliens to get access to our driver 's licenses .  our message on this issue is clear : if you are not in this country legally , then you will not be given legal sanctions on our roads .  if you are in america on a visa , you will be issued a driver 's license ; but it will expire on the same day as your visa .  muhammed atta , as has been said , came to america on a 6-month visa , but he was issued a 6-year florida driver 's license .  i struggled with this issue , as the chairman had said .  in my former role as the secretary of state in michigan , where i served as the chief motor vehicle administrator , i was forced to issue drivers ' licenses to illegal aliens .  unfortunately , michigan is one of the states that continues this practice .  it has become a state of choice for illegals to obtain a license .  we must stop this practice .  i urge my colleagues to support the bill .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this bill .  one of the solemn honors that i have had as a member of congress is to visit our soldiers who have been wounded in iraq .  i have visited with them at walter reed army hospital here in washington and at the veterans hospital at palo alto , california .  it is rewarding and shocking to meet our troops under these circumstances .  theirs are the stories of courage under fire .  their wounds are almost unimaginable to those of us who are not sharing their world of combat .  the treatment that they receive from the moment they are attended to on the battlefield , taken to battlefield hospitals , transported to germany and stabilized and brought home to the united states for specialized care and rehabilitation is a tribute to our magnificent military and veterans medical system .  each time that i have left these brave men and women , i have had to confront my role as a policy-maker and whether or not i have done all i can to serve and protect them in their mission .  i voted not to go to war in iraq because i believed at the time of the vote , and i believe now , that the case had not been made ; that the intelligence we had did not support what the bush administration was telling the american people was the threat that we faced from iraq .  tragically , since that time , it has become clear that there was not only no imminent threat to the united states from iraq , but there was no plan for what our troops would encounter after the war was supposedly won .  the duty this government owed to its soldiers when they were sent into combat was not met : not in the justification , not in the preparation and not in the planning .  our obligation to them was simply not met .  all americans now understand that the reasons that the bush administration gave to go to war in iraq were not true .  the evidence did not exist .  in spite of the advice of many in our military , in our state department and among our allies , the administration remained determined to wage a war in iraq .  in short , the administration failed to be truthful with the american people and with the congress .  as a result , since the first day of that war , americans have been paying 90 percent of the costs and suffering 95 percent of the casualties beyond those of the iraqi people .  today , we are being asked to vote for another $ 81 billion for the war in iraq .  this is the third supplemental appropriations bill for iraq since the war started , totaling nearly $ 200 billion ; and without a change in course , the nonpartisan congressional budget office estimates the war in iraq and afghanistan will cost an additional $ 458 billion over the next 10 years .  astoundingly , this additional request has no change in strategy forthcoming from the president to address the absence of control and continued violence against our troops and the iraqi people .  the president and his advisers cling to the idea that america is just one major battle away from victory , or that with just one more capture of a significant insurgent leader we will break the back of the opposition to our occupation and to the formation of a democratic government in iraq .  those who continue to attack our troops and the iraq people have been described in many different ways as the war has dragged on .  first , we were told the resistance was under the command and control of saddam hussein .  then they were described as disaffected baathists , and later they were just a bunch of `` bitter enders. '' we were told that a heavy battle attack of fallujah would break the back of the resistance .  what happened instead was that we made 300 , 000 people homeless by flattening their city with little or no impact on the resistance .  in fact , the violence rapidly spread to other major cities .  while it has become clearer to those with both diplomatic and military experience that we must now develop a new strategy for success , it is resisted by the very same top command in the white house and the pentagon who have made so many errors and so many miscalculations that have continued to place so many of our military in circumstances in which they are not able to prevail .  the opposition to change comes from the very same people that failed to carry out the due diligence to properly plan and prepare for the war and its aftermath .  their failure to anticipate , plan , and train for the mission that our soldiers were faced with was a failure of the first duty of care owed by the commander in chief and the defense secretary to our troops , the duty to provide for the protection of our forces .  this was not done , and the results have been thousands of wounded and killed , at the same time that the pentagon resists change and fails to transform its approach to fighting terrorism in iraq and elsewhere .  so , today , nearly 3 years after 9/11 , we still have no comprehensive policy to support the war on terror declared by the president .  as a result , both our nation and our troops continue to face an unacceptable level of threat and danger .  today , as we consider this request for supplemental appropriations , the dishonesty by the bush administration continues .  this request itself is dishonest .  it is labeled as an emergency , as if somehow the administration did not know what money it was going to need for the war in this year 's budget or in next year 's budget .  yet we know the war has been costing between 5 and $ 7 billion a month and is likely to continue to do so under the current policy .  the administration will not take responsibility for the cost of the war or how to pay for it .  at the end of the day , the president and his advisers simply do not have the courage of their convictions .  if they did , they would be honest with the american people about the real cost of war and the lack of progress being made on the ground , about the plan for drawing down our troops and about the real reason american soldiers were sent to iraq in the first place .  i can not in good conscience vote to approve a supplemental appropriations bill that offers no strategy for success , that has no plan to draw down our troops in a responsible manner , and that fails to makes a compelling case to the american people about why the haunting sacrifices of lives , limbs and money have been necessary .  i know that some of my colleagues , in very good conscience and with honorable intentions , believe that supporting this bill is the equivalent of supporting our troops .  i would very respectfully have to disagree with that view today .  rather , in my view , to vote for this supplemental is to expose our troops to the same leadership in the white house and the pentagon that refuses to tell the truth , that refuses to take responsibility for its actions , and that refuses to hold a single person accountable for the failed decisions that have been made for this war .  and it exposes them to the same leadership that refuses to provide the kind of change that will start to remove the central organizing principal of the guerrilla war in iraq -- the presence of nearly 150 , 000 american troops viewed as occupiers by those who oppose us .  to say that we must remain in the current configuration in iraq because the situation will get worse is to ignore the facts on the ground , facts that have been acknowledged by many of our field commanders , by members of congress who have visited iraq , and by members of the news media covering the war .  this is a very difficult vote , i understand that .  but let us be clear that this is not a vote about whether i or any other member of congress supports american troops .  of course we do .  and this is not a vote about the heroism shown by the thousands of iraqis who risked their own lives by voting in the national elections in january .  they have my admiration and support .  we support the troops by arguing against the kind of failed preparation and planning that sent national guard and reserve troops into battle without flak jackets and reinforced hum-vees .  we support our troops by arguing in favor of a strategy for success .  we support our troops by arguing against the president 's budget that dishonors our veterans by undermining the system of care and benefits they need and deserve .  but we do not honor our troops simply by approving yet another allegedly emergency bill that offers no promise of success in an area of the world where success is not just critical , it is literally a matter of life and death .  we can provide for the needs of our troops in a bill that also provides for success in this war .  tragically , that bill is not before us today .  mr. speaker , it has been 2 years since president bush stood aboard the uss lincoln aircraft carrier and declared , `` mission accomplished '' in iraq .  and in those two years it has become increasingly clear that the war in iraq is far from over , and that the american people are paying the price .  let 's just take a look at the facts : there are currently 150 , 000 american troops now serving in iraq , including 8 , 000 reserve and national guard troops .  tragically , 1 , 582 american service members have been killed in the iraq war .  at least 12 , 243 u.s. troops have been wounded in action , many with grievous injuries that will require a lifetime of medical assistance and other types of support .  more than one in five iraqi war veterans have some type of mental disorder caused by their wartime service .  in addition to the cost of life and quality of life for the brave american men and women who are fighting in iraq , the dollar cost of the war is also taking its toll on the american people .  to date , $ 217 billion in american taxpayer dollars have gone to fund the war in iraq .  we were told our allies would share the cost of the war ; we were told iraqi oil would pay for the cost of the war .  now it is clear , there was no plan : the american taxpayer is paying for the cost of this war to the tune of $ 5 billion a month .  in fact , today 's $ 82 billion supplemental is the fifth such supplemental congress has passed at the request of the bush administration to fund the war on terror .  that 's billions of dollars not spent on pressing problems right here at home .  problems , such as : the price of gas at the pump .  gas prices remain at record levels at $ 2.24 per gallon nationwide , with some states topping $ 2.60 .  that means gas prices have risen 33 cents in just the last two months and are 42 cents a gallon higher than a year ago .  the energy department predicts that gas prices will climb to a record $ 2.35 by memorial day -- averaging $ 2.28 this summer .  the high cost of health insurance .  health care costs for families have skyrocketed almost 50 percent over the past five years .  a lagging economy .  the economy grew at just 3.1 percent in the first quarter -- the slowest pace in 2 years and down from a 3.8-percent pace logged in the final quarter of 2004 .  declining wages and benefits .  workers ' salaries and benefits have suffered the largest 3-year decline since 1948 ( as a portion of our economy ) even as corporate profits continue to rise .  fewer jobs .  446 , 000 private-sector jobs and 2.8 million manufacturing jobs have been lost .  record budget deficits .  this year 's deficit is on track to reach a record $ 427 billion .  veteran 's benefits .  over the next 5 years , the budget for veterans programs , primarily health care , is $ 14.2 billion below the amount needed to maintain services at current levels .  and , record trade deficits .  the u.s. trade deficit surged to an all-time high of $ 61.04 billion in february .  two years after president bush declared mission accomplished in iraq , there is still no end in sight .  instead of just signing another multi-billion dollar check to the administration , is n't it time to develop a real plan to stabilize iraq so we can bring american troops home and concentrate on our problems here at home ?  mr. speaker , on february 17 , 2004 , the national debt of the united states exceeded $ 7 trillion for the first time in our country 's history .  one year later , our national debt is $ 7.7 trillion .  in the past year , our country has added $ 700 billion to our national debt .  the conference report for the fy06 budget resolution that is before us today would increase the statutory debt limit by $ 781 billion to a record $ 9 trillion .  mr. speaker , enough is enough .  the out-of-control rise in our national debt over the last year and the rise in our debt envisioned in this conference report are further signs of the terrible fiscal position in which we now find ourselves .  in 2001 , we had ten-year projected surpluses of $ 5.6 trillion [ 2002-2011 ] .  now , over that same time period , we have likely ten-year deficits of $ 3.9 trillion .  that 's a $ 9.5 trillion reversal in our ten-year fiscal outlook .  whether intentional or otherwise , our country 's current fiscal policies are depriving the federal government of future revenue at a time when we ought to be preparing for an unprecedented demographic shift that will strain social security and medicare .  our current fiscal irresponsibility will eventually land squarely on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren , who will be forced to pay back the debt we are accumulating today .  the `` debt tax '' that we are imposing on our children and grandchildren can not be repealed .  it can only be reduced if we take responsible steps now to improve our situation .  both parties need to work together in a bipartisan fashion to bring our budget back into balance so we can avoid the higher long-term interest rates and weakened dollar that are the inevitable consequences of rising deficits and a high national debt .  we are witnessing on a daily basis the reaction of the global financial markets to our fiscal irresponsibility , and as we can see in this conference report , congress has not yet gotten the message that deficits and debt matter .  for starters , congress needs to reinstate paygo rules for the entire budget , including spending and revenue measures .  budget enforcement rules that apply to only certain parts of the budget will not have a significant impact on our rising deficits , as federal reserve chairman alan greenspan mentioned in his recent testimony before the budget committee .  this fiscal year alone , interest on the national debt is expected to rise to $ 178 billion , and the administration projects that that figure will increase to $ 211 billion during the next fiscal year .  to put that figure in perspective , projected interest on our national debt next year will be $ 75 billion more than projected spending on education , public health , health research , and veterans ' benefits combined [ $ 138 billion ] .  further , the budget conference report before us today , which was filed only three hours before the house began to consider it , would require the house to cut medicaid funding by as much as $ 15 billion over the next five years .  just two days ago the house voted , by a vote of 348-72 , to reject harmful cuts to the medicaid program , and this conference report blatantly ignores the will of the house .  in addition to assuming an ever-larger share of our annual budgets , the interest on our debt , and the debt itself , are increasing our reliance on foreign borrowers , which will weaken our position in the world and increase the risk that another nation will be able to assert greater leverage over america .  over the last year , our country has borrowed nearly $ 400 billion [ $ 389 billion ] from foreign countries , and almost half [ 44 % ] of our publicly-held debt is held by foreign creditors [ $ 1.96 trillion , out of $ 4.4 trillion of publicly held debt ] .  finally , our deficits and debt threaten the social security and medicare programs that have raised so many of our seniors out of poverty and helped sustain the strongest middle class in history .  with a projected 75 year unfunded liability of $ 3.7 trillion , both parties in congress need to work together to address social security 's solvency problem , and this conference report does nothing to protect social security .  in fact , it continues the practice of raiding the social security trust funds to pay for other expenses of the federal government .  it is time for congress to stop playing games with our national debt , with social security , and with our kids and grandkids ' futures and take a commonsense , bipartisan approach to solve our budget problems .  mr. chairman , the problem with this bill is that it is an immigration bill posing as an identification bill .  instead of listening to what the states told us needed to be done to make driver 's licenses more secure , what we have done is to basically make state motor vehicle employees unwitting immigration agents .  it does little to improve homeland security , and it is certain to prove overwhelming and ineffective .  now , i support what the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) is trying to do to improve the integrity of driver 's licenses , but i find it curious that the leadership of the house has chosen to largely ignore the multiple references in the 9/11 commission report to the value of on-card biometric technology in improving the integrity of identification cards .  the problem is that these digital images are not sufficient .  matching the image with the face is more prone to error than the technology that would use biometric data .  two fingerprints transformed into numeric algorithm , that works .  what we have here does not work .  i think we are going to find the states letting us know that .  unfortunately , it will be too late .  we will miss an opportunity .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , it would remain in the bill that the administration would have to detail and share with us what is their strategy for success .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this conference committee report .  but , mr. speaker , the american people whose sons and daughters are fighting this war and the senior military officers who are directing this war deserve to know what the white house will consider to be success in iraq .  now , this conference committee report includes language that would require the administration to fully evaluate the situation in iraq and provide the congress with measurable , achievable criteria , including the following : an assessment of the number of troops it will take to secure the peace and how those troops would be rotated ; key measures of political stability , such as ratification of a national constitution and permanent national elections now scheduled for next year ; the estimated strength of the iraqi insurgency and the extent to which it is composed of noniraqi fighters ; the operational readiness of iraqi military forces , including the type , number , size , and organizational structure of iraqi battalions that are capable of conducting counterinsurgency operations independently ; the fact is that our long-term presence in iraq will only give our enemies in the region a greater ability to recruit terrorists and build public support for violence .  that is the opposite of our objective there .  i do think it is past time to lay out for the american people what is our strategy for success .  this language that is included in the report will require the secretary to report no later than 60 days after the enactment of the supplemental and every 90 days thereafter .  that is progress .  we support our troops .  we have to complete this mission , but we also need to work together .  the fact is , the american people whose sons and daughters are fighting this war do not have the ability to require this of the administration , nor do the senior military officers .  it is our responsibility , and i am glad that this congress is committed to performing that responsibility .  on balance , it is a good bill , and i support it .  mr. chairman , this is truly a bipartisan bill , the defense part of it in particular .  chairman young and i have worked very closely together .  he visited some places ; i visited three bases .  we found shortages .  we found problems .  we tried to rectify those problems .  we tried to put in what the people in the field asked us and what needed to be done .  we realized that insurance payments needed to be changed .  we realized that the death benefits needed to be changed .  we also realized there is a jurisdictional problem , but we felt like it could not wait .  i have had 12 people killed in my district , and there is no question in my mind for the need for that to be changed .  but the thing that is the most important in my estimation is accountability .  chairman young and i sat in his office not long ago and talked about the bill , and he got his copy of the constitution out and it talked about accountability .  it talked about congressional accountability .  and i thought how unaccountable the defense department seems to be at this stage .  they do not seem to realize we are not here to hurt them , we are here to help them .  we believe that if you do not have the confidence of the people , if you do not have confidence in the way the money is being spent , you are going to lose confidence in the overall project , the overall philosophy , the overall direction we are trying to go .  we put language in the bill last year , and we said , you have got to give us a report .  that report is 3 or 4 months late .  no reason for that to happen .  they had plenty of notice .  and it should have been on our desk before this bill was up so that if there was something that needed to be rectified , we could rectify it .  there are two reports .  i do not know if the second one is late yet or not .  of course that takes us to the next step and that is the thing with the intelligence which we have read in the newspaper and which i can neither confirm nor not confirm has happened .  but i worry that things are getting out of control that we do not know about .  we sit and try to help them every way we can .  many of the things we put in this bill they did not ask for because they did not know about it .  we found out about it , and we made sure that was part of the presentation , part of this bill .  i have to say that when i meet with the secretary of defense , when we listen to his presentation , we always say to him , chairman of the full committee , chairman lewis , chairman of the defense subcommittee the last time , chairman young , we always say , look , we 're here to help you .  give us these reports .  tell us how you 're spending this money .  when i saw there was a $ 9 billion fund that was not accounted for according to the auditors , and , of course , this is not appropriated money , this is money provided for the oil , but still we should know where it goes because it can replace some of the money that we are appropriating for these resources .  i would just conclude by saying this is our responsibility under the constitution , and i am hopeful that the defense department gets the message .  i support the bill and will do everything i can to get it passed .  of course , any problems we have in conference i am sure we will work them out .  mr. chairman , i think the gentleman has good criteria for success , and the chairman and i have talked about this , and i think he has got a good idea here .  mr. speaker , in regards to what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  just said , i am surprised at the new chairman .  he is so lenient about getting time out of him .  usually our bill moves much faster than this .  i thought he learned .  let me say the defense part of this and maybe the rest of it is probably the most bipartisan bill one could ever find .  the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) , the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) , and i have been traveling to these various bases .  we found shortages every place we went , all kinds of problems that they brought to our attention that needed to be rectified .  we found problems so severe that many of the units that were on their way to iraq were c-4 .  the gentleman from california ( mr. cunningham )  , my good friend , the hero from vietnam , knows what i am talking about when i say c-4 .  i am talking about they are not ready to go to combat because the equipment is so bad .  as a matter of fact , the equipment was so bad at one base , and i think it was fort stewart where the troops did not have radios to train with , did not have small arms ammunition , did not have mortar ammunition to train with , and that means that when they get there , they are not at the cutting edge of where they should be .  now they get equipment when they get there , and that overcomes the c-4 .  so the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) and i , what we did was put $ 2.3 billion into the budget .  we first checked , the staff checked , with the army to make sure that that is where it ought to be put .  the army came back and supported us .  usually , they beat around the bush .  the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) knows what i mean .  we talk to them , and because of other people over there , they do not want to admit that they need the money .  this time they were very emphatic that they needed every cent and they needed it as soon as they could get it .  so we added money for the types of things that they need .  having said that , what i have said to the services because we are having such a problem , we see the recruiting problem , we are looking into that right now .  the subcommittee i serve on , we realize and we have said for a long time , they are going to have a recruiting problem as this war gets unpopular ; and we were trying to figure out how do we overcome that .  most times i disagree with those bonuses because i feel so strongly that people ought to join the armed forces for the good of the country , but we have to give bonuses to send them over there .  we put money in for those kinds of things .  we increased the amount of money somebody gets when they are killed in action .  we expanded it so that when they are killed in action , they are taken care of retroactively as well as prospectively .  we take care of somebody who is wounded .  we added money to it .  some veterans group called me and said they were not happy with the way we added that money .  they felt like there ought to be more study , and i can not disagree with that .  but when the four of us sat down , the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) and senator inouye and senator stevens , we came to the conclusion that we just did not think we could wait .  so we put money in to take care of people who were injured so severely as well as the ones that were killed .  and i got so many letters from the people at home , and i have had 12 killed in my district , how pleased they were about what we are doing because it helped them get through a very difficult time .  what we have tried to do over the years is make sure that the people that were in the armed forces had what they needed , that the people in iraq have what they need .  our subcommittee brought to the attention of the country that they were without a lot of equipment in iraq .  we are working right now .  new trucks , we are trying to figure out how to put new trucks in that are encapsulated because we have taken care of the humvees , but we need to take care of the trucks now .  so we got some commercial trucks which were recommended which were $ 100 , 000 less , but it was so late , we could not get it in the bill .  we are going to ask for reprogramming for that amount of money .  so this bill is taking care of equipment shortages , not all of them , but it is taking care of as many as we could possibly squeeze in .  it is taking care of reset .  we forced the military to ask for reset .  the minute that this war is over and the money starts to dry up , reset will be the first thing they do not do ; so we have to do it now .  and i have said to many of the industrial leaders in this country , the minute the war is over , there will not be any supplementals , there will be a lot less money to be spent , and we have got to spend this money now in the supplementals to make sure that that gets done .  armor modularity , there is some argument about that ; but we think it ought to be done , and we have pushed this .  many of the programs that the army has today have come about because of the defense subcommittee , chaired by the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and chaired by the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  .  many of the things that have happened have happened because we see it out in the field .  we go out in the field , talk to the people , make sure that we are doing the right thing , and then we try to send defense in the right direction .  so i urge the members to vote for this .  the troops need it , and it helps dramatically for the amount of money that is needed by the armed forces .  mr. chairman , we are all grateful to our troops and those serving in iraq .  we are grateful for what we are seeing happening there , and we want to do what we can to support those efforts and make sure that our troops have what they need .  but every time when i go home , no matter what the subject is that we are talking about in any meeting , the thing that always comes up is the deficit .  somebody always says , `` but what are you doing about the deficit ?  `` my concern with the embassy being in the supplemental is exactly that , it is over and above the regular process .  i have no problem with building an embassy in iraq .  we need an embassy in iraq , but we have also known we need an embassy in iraq , and why did it not come through earlier if it is that much of an emergency .  yes , it is a huge amount of money and i understand it is not just a building , it is a compound , but it is three times what we have spent in afghanistan already .  if we do not start getting some discipline in this body in what we are doing , we are never going to get back to where we all want to be , and that is what we did in 1997 was start to balance the budget , and we were well on the way .  sure , we have had a lot of problems .  we had the war , the recession , other problems which have interfered with that , but we have to have some fiscal discipline and just putting things that are not actual emergencies in a supplemental spending bill in my opinion is not to be done .  a supplemental is for emergencies and i do not consider an embassy to be an emergency .  my constituents at home agree with this .  as i said before , whenever i am anywhere they always say what are you doing about cutting spending , what are you doing about the deficit ?  i hope we can bring this embassy back through regular order and make it happen because we want to be sure the people are protected , and then pass the supplemental today .  the other things in the supplemental are needed .  there is no question about that .  our chairman has done a very , very good job with this bill , but i have a problem with funding the embassy in a supplemental .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , the distinguished chairman talks about section 102 of the bill , which gives the secretary of homeland security the ability to waive all laws that might get in the way of building the fence ; and he talks about environmental laws , and he talks about endangered species .  well , that is all well and good , but the radicalism and the irresponsibility of the majority is shown by how this is drafted .  this does not refer to environmental laws .  this does not refer to endangered species .  this says the secretary of homeland security shall have the authority to waive all laws in his sole discretion that he determines necessary .  the secretary of homeland security can tell the contractors , if anybody gets in your way , shoot them .  shoot them .  the laws against men are waived .  laws against anything are waived .  it makes him a total dictator .  then to make sure that the secretary can be a total dictator in contravention of the constitution , in contravention of all our laws , it then says , no court shall have jurisdiction to hear any clause or claim arising from any decision the secretary takes or to order any compensatory declarative injunctive , equitable or any other relief for damages alleged to have been suffered .  so someone can be shot because the secretary says shoot anybody that gets in the way by accident or deliberately and the courts can not review whether the secretary had the authority , whether this is constitutional .  last year we had certain court-stripping legislation before us to say that the court shall have no jurisdiction to hear a claim against the constitutionality of the defense of marriage act .  one other thing , i got up on this floor and i said , this is going to become boiler plate language in bills , and here it is .  it did not even mention it .  boiler plate language .  `` no court shall review any action the secretary may take. '' i thought the republican party stood for limited government .  this says the secretary is absolute dictator , as absolute as stalin .  what kind of language is this ?  regardless of the merits of this bill , regardless of the merits of this provision in general , this is disgraceful .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i grant myself the remainder of the time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , no person in our country should be given unfettered authority , unfettered discretion to waive any or all laws , for whatever the purpose .  take this situation .  in order to expedite construction of this fence , the department of homeland security could select a contractor without competitive bidding , use undocumented workers , violate child labor laws , pay the workers less than the minimum wage , exempt contractors from federal and state withholding ; workers could be forced to put in 18-hour-days without overtime pay , in unsafe conditions , and be transported in trucks used for hazardous cargo ; and allow the secretary discretion to have these workers construct fences and roads through private property .  that is wrong .  you can build a fence , but you do not have to violate all those laws .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , how many speakers does the gentleman have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i am the last remaining speaker on my side .  how much time do i have remaining ?  that is what we tried to do .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 8 minutes .  mr. speaker , this bill before us today makes clear that we have now spent $ 284 billion in iraq and afghanistan since the war began .  the money that has been spent in afghanistan is certainly legitimate and justified .  after all , that country harbored the people who attacked us on 9/11 .  the problem is , however , that $ 165 billion has now been spent to deal with a country that did not attack us .  we have spent some $ 240 billion on this entire endeavor since the president first landed in his jumpsuit on that carrier and addressed the country under the banner `` mission accomplished. '' there has been quite a bit of that mission left since it supposedly was over .  we have now been involved in iraq longer than we were involved in world war i , and respectable and responsible experts have told me that they expect that we will be involved for at least another 5 years .  this whole operation has been brought to us by the same people who erroneously told us that we had to go to war because iraq had weapons of mass destruction and it was implied that they had , or were close to having , nuclear capability .  that was all demonstrated not to be true .  this has been brought to us by the same people who believed the assertions that our troops would be welcomed with open arms .  it has been brought to us by the same people who thought they were so smart that they knew more than general shinseki when the good general warned us that we would need substantially more troops and boots on the ground than we were scheduled to have if the postwar occupation was to go well .  and it has been brought to us by the same people who provided to our troops insufficient armor for humvees , insufficient body armor and insufficient jammers to prevent our troops from having their faces and their legs and their arms blown off by remotely detonated bombs and mines .  i want to make quite clear i will support this bill because i feel that i have no choice but to participate in cleaning up the mess which somebody else left .  but i do not relish it .  i believe that the entire operation in iraq has been accompanied by incredibly naive romanticism on the part of the white house and on the part of the civilian leadership in the pentagon , and that has left the people fighting the war to bear the brunt of the miscalculations that have been made by the civilian leadership of our government .  we have lost the lives of 1 , 500 american service men and women .  we have seen more than 11 , 000 be injured .  and this bill understates , in my view , the amount of money that will be needed eventually to restore the readiness of the u.s. armed forces and to minimize their casualties .  the second thing this bill does is to demonstrate once again how we , on both sides of the aisle , have had to work doubly hard to overcome the resistance of the white house in adequately funding homeland security operations .  they have been especially resistant to providing the adequate funding along the borders , especially the canadian border .  and it has taken a bipartisan effort on the part of a wide variety of people in this congress in order to overcome that resistance .  this bill falls far short of the funding that is necessary to provide a secure set of borders for the united states .  the new bill that is going to be offered by the gentleman from kentucky will help fill that gap , but that is forced to play catch-up because we have met a steady resistance effort on the part of the white house .  lastly , i simply want to say that while i am certainly no expert on the subject , i note that there is being attached to this bill a provision which many experts in the field feel has the potential to construct a nationwide database that could be very harmful in terms of people 's efforts to engage in identity theft .  i hope that proves not to be the case .  i would simply make the point that certainly no one on our committee on either side of the aisle has the expertise that you would hope would be found in the authorization committees , and i wish that that provision had been dealt with on a separate bill rather than solving an internal problem within the republican caucus by having it attached to an unrelated bill , and i want to make one point about that .  we are being lectured almost daily by the majority that we should not add ungermane riders to appropriation bills .  i want to serve notice that if the majority feels free to add unrelated authorization bills such as this to a must-pass bill , that then i feel fully within my rights in offering whatever authorization legislation we feel appropriate on this side of the aisle and asking that it be attached to appropriation bills .  if sauce is going to be okay for the goose , then it ought to be good for the gander .  so we will see in the coming months what the attitude of the majority is when we seek to add what we feel are legitimate efforts to strengthen appropriation bills by adding various pieces of so-called legislation to appropriation bills .  so since the majority has chosen to proceed down that path , i hope they raise no objection when we seek to follow it .  with that , mr. speaker , again , i repeat i intend to vote for this bill with all of my misgivings .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , can i inquire how much time each side has remaining .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 3 minutes .  mr. speaker , i take this time to explain the motion to recommit that i will offer at the end of this debate .  here is what it does : the senate bill contains funding for a total of 150 , 000 border patrol agents , 250 immigration investigators , and 168 immigration enforcement agents , and detention officers and their associated training and support cast .  this conference agreement falls short of the senate bill in 3 areas .  it only contains funds for 500 border patrol agents , not the 150 , 000 called for in the senate bill .  it only contains funding for 50 immigration investigators , not the 250 called for in the senate bill .  last , it also contains no funding for unmanned border aerial vehicles .  the motion to recommit is simple .  it would take us to the levels contained in the senate bill for border patrol agents by adding funding for 550 additional border patrol agents and for 200 immigration investigators .  it would also fund unmanned border aerial vehicles that have been used successfully in a test in arizona to assist in surveillance .  former dhs deputy secretary lloyd testified that the vehicles provided `` invaluable '' service .  since border patrol agents are trained at the federal law enforcement training center in artesia , new mexico , funding is included like the senate bill to purchase and operate modular classrooms for these additional agents .  this motion , in short , would provide an additional $ 284.4 million to immigration and customs enforcement to do this as was in the senate bill .  need i remind anyone that the intelligence reform bill , which became law last december , called for 2 , 000 additional border patrol agents a year and 800 additional immigration investigators ?  the president requested no funding for that supplemental request .  i would note that on march 30 the administration announced it would add more than 500 agents in arizona , but those are not new agents .  135 of them or so will come from other southwest and southern border patrol locations , and the remainder are simply new trainees who will replace agents retiring or leaving the border patrol across the country .  so i would simply urge house members to vote for this motion .  it ought not be at all controversial .  it is practical if you want to put your money where your press releases have been with respect to border patrol .  mr. speaker , in this form , i am .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the wartime supplemental that includes urgent funding for our soldiers and sailors now prosecuting the global war on terror in afghanistan and iraq .  this bill also has important additional funding for border security , and language important to south texas shrimpers that will make it easier for them to hire workers for the coming season .  as a member of the house armed services committee , i know our soldiers can do anything .  yet that truth does not mean that the congress should skimp on our financial obligations to our fighting men and women .  they run out of money altogether at the end of this month , so i am pleased we are finalizing this bill today .  as a border congressman , i am grateful that the conferees included desperately needed funding for border security .  i have been relentless in talking to so many of you about my concerns related to spending on border security matters .  i thank the gentleman from wisconsin , mr. obey , for his work in getting negotiators to include this spending .  while this is a good start , it still comes up short of both what we need and what the intelligence reform bill mandated we do .  the intelligence reform bill passed by congress last year mandated 2 , 000 border patrol agents a year for the next 5 years .  the president came to the table with only 210 in his budget ; today we are adding another 500 .  that 's still over 1 , 000 short of what this government agrees is the very least we should do to protect our border and stem the tide of releasing otms -- illegal immigrants that are `` other than mexican '' -- into the u.s. general population .  given our border security is entirely budget driven , this is a rare victory for those of us who have been talking about the need to put our money where our mouth is when it comes to protecting our nation from terrorists that may be trying to enter the country through the loopholes in our border security policy .  we are sending our young soldiers to fight and die in iraq and afghanistan and we justify that by saying we are fighting the war there so we will not have to fight it here .  we may very well be fighting a war over there and letting terrorists in our back door .  as so many south texans and my colleagues know , i have been lifting my voice about how border security is profoundly lacking .  currently , the united states does not have room to hold the large number of otms , caught by border law enforcement .  while i know that most of these immigrants are merely seeking a better life , it is the few -- the handful -- that may be entering our country to do us harm .  that is whom we need to worry about .  so we are releasing , on their own recognizance , into the population of the united states very large numbers of otms. what happens is our border patrol agents routinely call detention facilities and discover there is no room to hold otms. so , they process these immigrants , many times without even getting fingerprints or running them through our national databases to see if they are on watch lists , and release them into the general population with a notice to appear at a deportation hearing a few weeks later .  law enforcement officers then take the released otms to the local bus station by the vanload , where they head elsewhere in the u.s. the number that never appear for deportation is over 90 percent of those released , a number now probably over 75 , 000 .  already the number of otms captured and released is more , so far this year , than for all of last year .  it is little wonder that private citizens are taking the law into their own hands to try to stem the tide of otms coming into our country .  but private militias , operating without the color of law , are not the answer .  we must secure our borders so private citizens do not feel the need to do so .  as a former law enforcement officer i know if we do n't have the border officers to stop the otms crossing the border , if we do n't have the room to hold the ones we catch , if we do n't put our money where our mouth is , we continue to send a dangerous signal to those who may wish to do us harm .  until we send a signal that those who cross our borders illegally , until we send a signal that when we catch you we will hold you until you are deported , until we honestly face the amount of money it will take to deal with these things , otms will continue to flock to the u.s. , quite possibly populating terror cells already operating in the united states .  unfortunately , the leadership decided to include many controversial provisions that members would n't otherwise support if they were n't linked to funding our troops .  i do not agree with some of the so-called security provisions in this bill , mainly the stricter asylum laws and national standards for drivers ' licenses .  a country like ours that believes so greatly in freedom and the protection of the oppressed should be a safe haven for refugees that are being persecuted by their governments because of their race , religion or political beliefs , which is why we are fighting the war we fund in this bill .  i am also disappointed congress has gone one step further in creating a national id .  many would suggest that a drivers ' license is the way terrorists are infiltrating our country .  that is simply not the case .  standardizing a drivers ' license would not have precluded the 9/11 terrorists from entering this country -- immigration reform and better border security practices would have .  today 's bill is a start in putting our money where our mouth is , but it is still insufficient to the monumental border security task before us and i ask our appropriators to ensure the necessary funding is included in the fiscal year 2006 appropriations bill .  ms. millender-mcdonald .  mr. speaker , as the ranking democrat of the committee on house administration , i wish to comment briefly on key provisions of this supplemental appropriations bill that touch upon my committee 's jurisdiction .  i commend the conferees for including $ 2.6 million for taking `` technical countermeasures '' to assure the electronic integrity of the visitor center now under construction here at the capitol .  given the status of that construction project , this matter is time-sensitive , and while we have no reason to believe anyone involved with the construction may be seeking to install surreptitious listening devices within the building 's walls and fittings , we know there are people in this world who might like to do so .  it is prudent to take reasonable steps against it , and thus eliminate any chance of repeating what happened during construction of the u.s. embassy in moscow some years ago .  i also commend the conferees for including $ 8.4 million to refresh the supply of `` quick masks '' deployed around the capitol complex to protect persons against chemical or biological attack .  the current masks have a limited shelf-life , and making these funds available now will expedite the process of replacement as they approach their expiration dates .  there is no question that the congress needs a new off-site delivery center , to facilitate the secure , timely delivery of packages to the capitol and congressional office buildings .  i am pleased the conferees included funds for a temporary facility to replace the substandard site now used , and funds for design of a permanent facility .  i trust that given the importance of deliveries to the capitol , any difficulties between the two houses over the nature of the delivery system can be resolved quickly .  finally , i wish to comment on something the conferees did not include in this bill , namely , any funding for up to 132 additional capitol police officers during fiscal 2005 .  these 132 officers , when added together with 122 more requested as part of the police 's fiscal 2006 request , would increase the sworn ranks by another 254 officers , an increase of roughly 16 % within two years .  obviously , with less than five months remaining in fiscal 2005 , the police could not hire and fully train 132 more officers by september 30 , so there is little reason to include funds in this bill , or even the funds for all 50 more officers included in the senate bill .  i am pleased that under these circumstances , the conferees chose to defer a decision about the need i thank our friends on the appropriations committee for their difficult and prudent decisions on the legislative-branch portion of this bill .  i look forward to working with them , and with our colleagues on my own committee , as the work of the legislative branch forges ahead .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this $ 82 billion `` emergency '' supplemental bill .  i also am opposed to the manner in which the real id act , h.r. 418 , was attached to the rule , thereby stealthily making the establishment of a national id part of an `` emergency '' bill to which it is completely unrelated .  once again we see controversial bills being hidden inside another bill so that they are automatically passed where they otherwise might face opposition .  i do not believe this is a wise practice .  this `` emergency '' supplemental is the second largest supplemental appropriations bill in united states history , second only to the one last year .  the funds will be considered `` emergency '' funds so congress can ignore spending caps that would require the billions in new spending to be offset by reducing spending elsewhere .  we are told that this is emergency spending , and that we therefore must not question this enormous expenditure .  does an emergency require sending billions of american taxpayers ' dollars overseas as foreign aid an emergency ?  this bill is filled with foreign aid spending .  if we pass this ill-conceived legislation , we will spend $ 656 million for tsunami relief ; $ 94 million for darfur , sudan ; $ 150 million for food aid , most to liberia and sudan ; $ 580 million for `` peacekeeping '' overseas ; $ 582 million to build a new american embassy in iraq ; $ 76 million to build a new airport in kuwait ( one of the wealthiest countries on earth ) ; $ 257 million for counter drug efforts in afghanistan ; $ 372 million for health , reconstruction , and alternative development programs to help farmers stop raising poppy ; $ 200 million in economic aid for the palestinians ; $ 150 million for pakistan ( run by an unelected dictator ) ; $ 200 million for jordan ; $ 34 million for ukraine .  does anyone really believe that all this foreign aid is `` emergency '' spending ?  or is it just an opportunity for some off-budget spending ?  just the above foreign aid equals almost $ 3.5 billion .  does anyone believe that sending this much money abroad as international welfare is a good thing for our economy ?  is there a baseball emergency ?  there must be , because this `` emergency '' supplemental contains a provision to allow washington , d.c .  to use taxpayer money to build a baseball stadium .  mr. chairman , this bill is almost unimaginably expensive .  it is our out-of-control spending that really is the greatest threat to the united states and our way of life .  i urge my colleagues to reject this legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , our distinguished ranking member , the lead democrat on the committee on appropriations for his leadership for his very important motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , before i get into talking about the bill , i want to commend both the distinguished chairman of the committee on appropriations , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and our distinguished ranking members on the committee on appropriations and subcommittee on defense .  over the years , they have worked very hard and provided great leadership for our men and women in uniform and for the security of our country .  there is much about this bill that i support .  i have some concerns which i will express but none of that diminishes the regard and appreciation i have for the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  mr. speaker , for the fourth time since the president ordered the invasion of iraq 2 years ago , congress has been asked to provide funds for the war outside the regular budget .  with nearly 140 , 000 troops in dire need of equipment and supplies , this legislation will be overwhelmingly approved and i will support it .  a willingness to provide our troops the support they need , however , should not be mistaken for support for the repeated failures in judgment that first put our troops in harm 's way and that keeps them there today .  two years ago this week on may 1 , 2003 , president bush stood on an aircraft carrier under a banner that proclaimed `` mission accomplished. '' considering the events that followed and what has been disclosed since then , if the president were to stand under a banner today it would have to read `` credibility demolished. '' we are in the war 's third year .  daily headlines are grim reminders of how far we are from a stable and secure iraq , and the president has yet to provide a plan to get us to that place .  we are fast approaching sadly 1 , 600 u.s. military deaths and thousands of more have suffered grievous and lasting wounds .  i have had the privilege to pay my respects to troops in theater and in hospitals in europe and in the united states .  whatever our disagreement about the policy which brought us into the war , whatever our disagreement on the lack of planning to end it , it never diminishes the regard that we have for our men and women in uniform .  we respect them and we appreciate their courage , their patriotism and the sacrifice they are willing to make for our country .  and on any opportunity that many of us have , we express that to them personally .  the president 's rationale for the invasion was discredited long ago .  iraq remains unsafe .  i talked about credibility in terms of the lack of planning .  there is also a lack of credibility in budgeting .  although appropriations for iraq approaches $ 200 billion , the president 's budget requests no money for the war on the grounds that the cost is unknowable .  instead , the president chooses to include a figure for the war 's cost , zero , that everyone knows to be wrong .  here we are today on thursday talking about a supplemental with a set amount in it of emergency funding for our troops , and we passed the budget last thursday .  it was not one week ago we did not know what the cost would be and now we do this week .  this is simply not an honest way to do our budgeting .  our troops need relief and their equipment needs repair and replacement .  the risk assessment released by the joint chiefs of staff this week shows the strain on our military is real and unsustainable .  and it is clear that the figure in the supplemental is really not enough to meet to meet the measure that the chairman mentioned .  providing money alone as this bill will do is not enough .  a way out must be provided as well .  we must focus on quality rather than quantity when training iraqi security forces , accelerate iraq 's reconstruction in ways that give iraqis a major stake in rebuilding their country , and step up regional diplomatic efforts to heal the strife on which the insurgency thrives .  i was pleased to be part of the bipartisan delegation that visited iraq during holy week , and i can tell you that firsthand that we have a long way to go to reaching those goals .  our experience in iraq strongly suggest that if we do not take these steps and soon , about training the security forces , accelerating iraq 's reconstruction , and stepping up regional diplomacy or as the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  would say , iraq-atize , internationalize and energize , if we do not do this and soon , americans may wonder for years to come if the end will ever be in sight .  the funds provided for our troops in iraq and afghanistan , for the relief of those devastated by the tsunami , to aid those suffering in darfur and elsewhere , and to promote middle east peace are necessary and important .  were conferees able to focus solely on these issues , their final product would have been much stronger .  however , since this bill is must-pass legislation , house republicans demanded the inclusion of controversial immigration provisions .  these provisions would be much better considered as part of a comprehensive immigration reform effort .  these provisions will make asylum harder to obtain for those seeking a haven from persecution and place a huge unfunded responsibility on the states to verify information used to support a driver 's license application .  this is an unfunded mandate .  this is an unfunded mandate and it is not part of the contract with america , no unfunded mandates .  since this is a conference report , we can not have a ruling from the chair that will allow us to discuss some specifics about the unfunded mandate , the driver 's license application that is in the bill .  it sounds like a good idea .  but if you are at the desk at the department of motor vehicles and you have now become an immigration officer because you have to prove the citizenship , or at least the legality of somebody being in the country , it is a big burden , it is costly , and it is unfunded .  we have given a mandate without the money and really without the consideration that this provision should have been given .  in addition , we unwisely vest in the secretary of homeland security the power to weigh federal and state environmental and labor laws .  this in the name of securing our borders .  securing our borders should be a national priority , which makes it all the more inexplicable that the president did not request in his budget the extra border patrol agents and detention beds authorized by congress last year in response to the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  bipartisan efforts in the senate do more for border security in this bill and were rebuffed by house republicans in favor of provisions that trample on the rights of individuals and states , and may result in the diminishment of the safety of the american people .  i commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  for offering his motion to recommit to fund border security at the senate levels .  he also had this as a motion to instruct when the conferees were named , to add $ 1 billion so that we could have the border security that was recommended by the 9/11 commission .  but that was rejected .  so we talk a great deal about securing the border , but we are not putting the resources there to do the job .  thank heavens senator byrd prevailed with part of the money in the senate .  we can do more .  we should have done more .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  has been a champion on this issue year in and year out as far as this discussion has been going .  again , border security , border security , border security , and then we can talk about a comprehensive immigration policy .  i hope that all of our colleagues will give an overwhelming support of this body to the obey motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , for many reasons , this is not an easy bill to support .  the legitimate emergency needs to which it responds , particularly the needs of our men and women in uniform overseas , are real and must be addressed .  a much better job , though , must be done to create conditions to allow large numbers of them to come home and to come home soon .  mr. speaker , i urge our colleagues to support the gentleman from wisconsin 's motion to recommit .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the real id act and with a particular sense of gratitude toward the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , who has doggedly brought this legislation to the hill for one reason and one reason only .  9/11 is not theoretical for me .  i was here .  i was on the capitol grounds , and my family during the school year lives in the washington d.c. , area , and like millions of other families in new york and washington , d.c. , was imperiled .  as the 9/11 commission report stated , `` for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons. '' on page 390 of the report they point out that `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification by fraud and that acquisition of these forms of identification assisted them in boarding commercial flights. '' by bringing this legislation today , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  is making my family safer in this post-9/11 america , and also closing asylum loopholes , strengthening our deportation laws .  it is time for congress to get real and pass the real id act and make our families and our nation safer .  madam chairman , i move to strike the last word .  madam chairman , i wish to extend my gratitude on behalf of the entire florida delegation to the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from kentucky ( mr. mike rogers ) for entering into this colloquy with us regarding a very crucial issue to florida as well as this congress .  last fall the state of florida withstood an historic four hurricanes causing enormous devastation and damage to property , waterways , homes and individuals ' lives .  i commend the relief efforts on the ground in the immediate aftermath of the hurricane as well as the willingness of congress to step forward and offer meaningful relief to hurricane victims .  but there are two issues for which the department of homeland security , federal emergency management agency should recognize under their current statutory authority to effectively address florida hurricane-related damage .  congress appropriated funds to respond to the hurricane devastation through the military construction appropriations and emergency hurricane supplemental appropriations act 2005 , public law 108-324 , and the emergency supplemental of 2004 , public law 108-303 .  reclaiming my time , i thank the chairman .  i would ask the chairman , is it his understanding that the administration has the authority under the stafford act to remove debris from the private lands when it is in the public interest ?  i thank the chairman for his time and attention to this most important effort .  it is my hope that this colloquy brings clarity and direction to fema as it administers the critical disaster relief funds .  mr. speaker , i thank chairman lewis for including in the supplemental the provision which is our wounded warrior bill .  as our enemies adapt their war-fighting strategies , they change not just to kill our men and women overseas , but to maim and wound .  roadside incendiary devices , rocket grenades , car bombs mean the loss of several arms and legs and eyes , blindness and paralysis .  our men and woman coming home at walter reed army hospital and their families coming up to be with them so they can heal faster are incurring great debt .  never mind that they try to transition back into society , those great wage earners , trying to find self-worth in the work .  this bill includes the wounded warrior project .  it says to our troops , we are going to provide you with supplemental disability insurance to help you transition back to being american citizens and thank you for your patriotism .  i urge my colleagues to vote for this supplemental .  do not allow these traumatic injuries to be the economic death sentence after our troops have survived the death bed overseas .  vote for our wounded warriors .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from mississippi for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , as the only member of congress with a background in immigration and experience in actually defending our nation 's borders , and after being here for 8 years in the house , i am profoundly disappointed at how much we talk about this issue and how little we do when it comes to immigration .  prior to coming to congress , i served for 26 1/2 years in the united states border patrol , so i know firsthand about the effort to protect our borders and how to keep america secure .  since coming to congress , i have heard a lot about how we need to crack down on illegal immigration in this country , but have seen very little action when it comes to providing adequate funding for the kinds of programs that i know work in dealing with the problem of illegal immigration .  for instance , just this week , with the release of the president 's budget , as my colleague mentioned , last august we were tough on the issue of immigration by saying we wanted 10 , 000 new border patrol agents and we wanted to create 40 , 000 new detention beds .  the administration in their budget wants to hire 210 border patrol agents .  they are silent on the issue of detention .  the administration also has proposed zeroing out very important programs to communities that deal with undocumented aliens , programs like the state criminal alien assistance program , the state prosecutors program , all zeroed out in this budget .  mr. chairman , the reason i am going to oppose this legislation is because i am sick and tired of coming here and talking , talking about the issue .  i am sick and tired of hearing arguments on who is going to do what .  just last monday , i was with some of my former colleagues at a port of entry in el paso , and they were asking me what kind of immigration reform would come out of this effort .  regrettably , mr. chairman , i told them , look , we said we were going to fund 10 , 000 agents ; we got 210 .  that is why i am going to vote against this legislation , and i urge my colleagues to do the same .  let us have a real and earnest debate on what needs to be done to protect this country .  i am , mr. speaker , in its present form .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , house report 108-773 which accompanied the military construction emergency hurricane supplemental bill stated , `` the conferees agree to provide an additional $ 6.5 billion for disaster relief activities associated with declared disasters such as hurricanes frances , ivan and jeanne. '' supplemental funds appropriated in the wake of the four hurricanes may be used by fema in administering relief to stricken communities and victims in areas such as florida where the president declared disaster areas that meet current statutory eligibility under the stafford act .  madam chairman , it is my understanding that the stafford act authorizes the removal of wreckage and debris resulting from a major disaster from both public and private lands when the president determines that it is in the public interest .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i want to compliment the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the other conferees for giving us a whole new effort , a major effort to try to control the borders and to deal with the massive illegal immigration problem that the country is facing .  we have 11 million estimated illegal aliens in the country , and 800 , 000 or so of them are people who have been ordered deported and yet have absconded .  eighty thousand of those have criminal records .  this bill , when combined with the homeland security appropriations bills for 2006 that we marked up yesterday in the subcommittee , those two bills combined will give us a new , massive effort to deal with the problem .  these two bills will give us 1 , 500 new border patrol agents , 568 new immigration and customs enforcement officers throughout the country , and some 3 , 900 new jail bed space to try to deal with this massive , overwhelming problem .  i want to commend the chairman for having the foresight , along with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and the other members of the conference , for giving us the new capability to tackle a problem that is proving to be very elusive .  so i compliment the chairman , and i urge everyone to support this bill .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 the real id act , because , contrary to its sponsors ' claims , this bill will not improve our country 's security .  instead , it will weaken law enforcement 's ability to do its job , and make driving on our roads more dangerous .  in addition , this bill eliminates critical provisions in the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act passed by congress in 2004 .  finally , the real id act makes it much more difficult for immigrants who are fleeing persecution to gain refuge in the united states .  mr. chairman , while there are many good reasons to oppose this bill , as i previously outlined , i will focus on the driver 's license provision and the asylum provision .  barring undocumented immigrants from accessing driver 's licenses is a dangerous proposal .  withholding driver 's licenses from these individuals will not fix our broken immigration system .  it will only make us less safe by having unlicensed and uninsured drivers on our roads .  the american automobile association ( aaa ) foundation for traffic safety report entitled , `` unlicensed to kill , '' found that unlicensed drivers are almost five times more likely to be in fatal car accidents than are validly licensed drivers .  clearly , our goal should be to have more , not fewer , licensed drivers .  denying licenses to undocumented immigrants will also hurt our national security by depriving law enforcement officials of critical information on millions of adults who are in the united states .  licensed individuals are registered , photographed and in some states fingerprinted .  this information is then entered into a database accessible to local and state law enforcement , fbi personnel and immigration officers , helping law enforcement to separate otherwise law abiding individuals from terrorist or criminals .  in fact , because many of the 9/11 hijackers did have a driver 's license , the records kept by state departments of motor vehicles were invaluable after 9/11 in tracking where the terrorist had been and with whom they had associated .  this information was used mr. chairman , there is no doubt that we must be proactive in the defense of our nation by identifying weaknesses in our security systems and making appropriate changes that will protect us from a terrorist attack .  for this reason , congress and the president charged the 9/11 commission to study our intelligence failures and make recommendations that would improve our systems .  those recommendations were , enacted into law with the passage of the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 just three months ago .  the intelligence reform bill required states to establish stringent standards for the issuance of driver 's licenses and identification cards .  among the new standards are requirements that licenses contain digital photographs , employ machine readable technology and contain security features to prevent tampering , counterfeiting or duplication .  currently , effective and workable federal standards furthermore , the asylum provisions in the real id act do nothing to enhance our nation 's security .  instead , the real id act serves only to deny people who are fleeing religious persecution , torture and other horrors the ability to escape into safety .  given the fact that an asylum seeker is immediately held in detention before his claim is processed , a terrorist would not risk claiming asylum to enter our country .  mr. chairman , real id act is a real bad idea for america .  this bill will make our roads more dangerous , inhibit the work of law enforcement , and undermine the homeland security measures enacted in the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this bill and instead focus on implementing the counter-terrorism provisions enacted into law just a few months ago .  mr. speaker , i rise in reluctant support of h.r. 1268 , the war supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2005 , which will provide funding for military operations and reconstruction activities in iraq and afghanistan , as well as important funds for tsunami relief and recovery .  i say `` reluctant support '' because the republican leadership has made a very poor and political decision to include controversial legislative provisions in this emergency spending bill that otherwise enjoys almost universal support because it provides needed assistance for our servicemen and women overseas .  it goes without saying , mr. speaker , that our servicemen and women deserve to have the equipment and support they need to help keep them safe as they fulfill their missions abroad .  towards that end , the appropriations committee increased funding by 69 percent above the president 's request for add-on vehicle armor kits , new trucks , and radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines .  the bill also includes important provisions to increase the military death gratuity and to provide subsidized life insurance benefits for families of soldiers who die or are killed on active duty .  no amount can compensate for the tragic death of a loved one , but an increase in these benefits can help a family cope with the financial impact of a combat death .  i am also pleased that additional funds have been provided for humanitarian relief and disaster assistance , including $ 400 million for sudan , $ 907 million for indian ocean tsunami relief , and $ 240 million in p.l .  480 grants for emergency food assistance .  but i am extremely upset and disappointed that the republican leadership is using this critical bill as a vehicle to pass unrelated and controversial policies , that will allow the department of homeland security to preempt state and federal laws to build border fences , require uniform national standards for issuing driver 's licenses , and change the asylum standards for immigrants seeking to flee to the united states to avoid persecution .  in particular , the bill includes an assault against the matricula consular cards issued by mexican and other latin american consulates , and consequently makes it an assault on our immigrant families who rely upon this form of identification in their daily lives for transactions involving banking , housing , education and even proving , when necessary , that they are the parents of their own children .  these provisions why does the republican leadership continue to abuse its power and shut out the american public ?  because the republican leadership knows that if these controversial provisions were openly debated in the house and senate they would not pass .  only by attaching these provisions to a must-pass bill like the emergency supplemental appropriations bill for our troops in iraq could they hope to be successful .  mr. speaker , this is just one more example of abuse of power by a republican leadership that continues to act irresponsibly on issues of importance to our american society .  nevertheless , in spite of my concerns , given the choice before us , i believe it is my responsibility to provide our servicemen and women the resources necessary for them to fulfill their mission and come home safely .  protecting our troops , who are sacrificing so much on our behalf , and providing for their families , will always be one of my highest priorities , and that is why , once again , i will support this necessary and important conference report today .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule to provide for consideration of this counterterrorism bill of which i am an original cosponsor .  this is the real id act .  it closes , among other things , the 3-mile hole in the fortified u.s.-mexico border fence near san diego .  border security must be a pillar of our national security policy .  recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with alien smuggling rings like ms-13 in order to enter the united states , particularly through our porous southern border .  this bill establishes strong security standards for the issuance of driver 's licenses that all states must comply with to eliminate weak links in identity security .  the nineteen 9/11 hijackers had 63 validly issued driver 's licenses and other forms of identification between them , and they were using these ids to move around the country undetected , plotting and planning .  in fact , eight of them were even registered to vote .  they then used the bogus licenses that they had to board u.s. planes .  h.r. 418 cracks down on asylum fraud by ensuring all terrorism-related grounds of inadmissibility are grounds for deportation .  the blind sheik , omar abdel rahman , who led a plot to bomb new york city landmarks , used an asylum application to avoid his deportation .  it is a fact that terrorists have continued to use and abuse asylum laws to stay in our country .  as the 9/11 commission found , abusing our asylum law is `` the primary method , '' in their words , used by terrorist aliens , like the 1993 world trade center bombers ramzi yousef and ahmad ajaj , to remain in the united states .  both , in the words of the 9/11 commission , `` concocted bogus political asylum stories when they arrived in the united states. '' so if we want to make it harder for terrorists like yousef and ajaj to abuse our asylum system , support this counterterrorism bill .  the ninth circuit created an extremely disturbing precedent that has made it easier for suspected terrorists to receive asylum .  the circuit has held that if a foreign government harasses an alien because he has been affiliated with a terrorist group , the alien is eligible for asylum because he could be persecuted on account of the political opinion of that terrorist group .  since members of terrorist organizations are eligible to receive asylum , under this doctrine an alien could receive asylum expressly because he was an admitted member of a terrorist organization .  the bill returns the law to its original understanding and overturns this ninth circuit precedent by requiring that asylum applicants establish that race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion was or will be a central reason for their claimed persecution .  these are commonsense changes to national security and to border security .  mr. speaker , i am pleased that the conference report includes the real id act , which i co-sponsored .  and of course the goal of this bill is straightforward .  it seeks to prevent another terrorist attack on u.s. soil by disrupting terrorist travel .  these provisions were called for by the 9/11 commission .  and this legislation uses existing states driver 's license systems to ensure we know who is in our country , that people are who they say they are , and that the name on a driver 's license is the holder 's real name , not an alias .  all but one of the 9/11 hijackers used u.s. driver 's licenses to board the planes that day because these documents allowed them to circumvent their expired visas .  it allowed them to not raise suspicion or concern .  mohammed atta received a 6-month visa to stay in the u.s. he received a florida driver 's license good for 6 years .  the real id act will end this by establishing a rule for all states , that temporary driver 's licenses for foreign visitors expire when their visa terms expire and establishes tough rules for confirming identity before driver 's licenses are issued .  mr. chairman , on september 11 , we were attacked by terrorists who took advantage of weaknesses in our border security .  after infiltrating our country , the terrorists were able to conceal their real identities , and thereby plot their attacks without fear of being apprehended .  if we , as a congress , want to seriously address the problem of terrorism , then we must address the issue of border security .  for this reason , i rise to express my support for the real id act .  this bill contains urgent border security reforms that were not addressed in the intelligence reform bill that president bush signed into law in december .  foremost in this bill are provisions that would prevent terrorists from obtaining a united states driver 's license .  without a license , potential terrorists will have a much harder time opening a bank account , traveling , and conducting other business necessary to plot an attack .  i think we all understand that preserving freedom is not an easy process .  freedom is a difficult journey filled with enemies who will try to destroy it if they are left unchecked .  for this reason , i strongly urge my colleagues to vote for the real id act .  mr. chairman , i am a proud daughter of immigrants who is honored to serve my country .  i consider it a privilege to be able to give something back to this country that has given so much opportunity to generations of immigrants over the years .  like millions of immigrants here today , my family came to this country in search of the american dream : a better life for their children so that their children could receive a quality education , some day own a home , and earn a fair wage .  i stand before my colleagues today angered and outraged that under the guise of national security , the republican party is trying to punish those seeking the same dreams that my parents sought .  if the republicans and this administration really want to strengthen national security , they should start , i would think , by providing full funding for the department of homeland security .  instead , the administration 's budget slashes funding for the cops program by $ 480 million and guts funding for local firefighters by $ 215 million .  this leaves our first responders without the critical resources they need .  the administration 's budget also breaks the promise of putting an additional 2 , 000 border patrol agents on the job in 2006 as promised in landmark intelligence reforms passed last year and endorsed by the 9/11 commission .  instead , the president 's budget provides funding for a mere 210 agents , a 90 percent cut over the 9/11 commission recommendations .  the truth of the matter is that republicans are using national security as a facade to alienate law-abiding , hard-working , and tax-paying immigrants .  there are 8 million undocumented immigrants in this country who are cleaning our offices , caring for our children and elderly , and picking the fruits and vegetables that we consume .  most of these jobs most americans do not want .  without these immigrants , our economy would falter .  what we should be doing is allowing immigrants a path to citizenship and access to driver 's licenses so they become a part of our american system .  this will make our country safer , and it will strengthen our national security .  we need comprehensive reform that supports our economy and values our immigrants .  if the real id act is passed today , it will deny driver 's licenses to those immigrants and slam the door shut on refugees seeking asylum from blood-thirsty regimes .  america is a country built by immigrants , and we should remain a country that is opening and welcoming to those who seek freedom .  it is a sad day when republicans use the pretext of national security to attack immigrants who pose no real threat to our security .  americans deserve better , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act for fy 2005 .  my opposition to this bill does not mean that i do not support our troops .  i wholeheartedly support our troops and believe that we should fully fund our troops so that they have the necessary equipment to ensure their safety .  also incorporated into this bill is funding for tsunami relief efforts for affected southeast asian countries .  having gone to sri lanka and personally seen the devastation , i know how important our relief efforts are for these countries .  sadly , i 'm opposing h.r. 1268 because it includes the real id act of 2005 .  the real id act of 2005 would deny drivers ' licenses to immigrants , and slam the doors on refugees seeking asylum from persecution .  the real , bad , id act has nothing to do with supporting our troops , let alone national security .  it is such a shame that republicans had to incorporate the real id act in the iraq supplemental and tsunami relief when it has nothing to do with these two pressing issues .  this is an unprecedented move on the part of the republican leadership and this concerns me .  the real id act , h.r. 418 will not make us safer .  what h.r. 418 will do is undermine several key security features that were dealt with responsibly in the intelligence reform legislation which was based on the 9-11 commission recommendations .  if the republicans and this administration really want to strengthen national security , they should start by providing full funding for the department of homeland security , particularly the security improvements authorized in the intelligence reform bill .  yet the president 's 2006 budget did not include funding for 10 , 000 new border guards , 40 , 000 new detention beds to hold people awaiting deportation , and 4 , 000 new immigration inspectors as the bill dictates .  the administration merely funds 210 new border patrol agents .  as the proud daughter of immigrants , i am pleased to be serving my country as a member of congress .  it is a great honor to be giving back to america , a country that has given my family so much .  like millions of immigrants , my parents came here in search of the american dream and to give their children the opportunity to secure a promising future .  again , i am outraged and saddened that republicans are using the pretext of national security to attack immigrants who pose no real threat to our safety .  america is a country built by immigrants , and we should remain a country that is open and welcoming to those seeking freedom .  the u.s. has always been a beacon of hope and we must continue to guard the light of liberty for those who are oppressed or displaced .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  23 , had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  much has been and will be said about this bill 's impact on making it more difficult for terrorists to get identification to conduct their terrorist activities and the reform of the asylum laws and the plugging of the fence south of san diego .  however , there is an issue of public safety involved in this bill as well .  yesterday , a criminal complaint was unsealed in the federal court in chicago which showed that there was a huge scam in getting wisconsin driver 's licenses for illegal aliens to drive trucks .  and in at least one instance , the case of nasko nazov , who is an illegal alien from macedonia , 3 days after he obtained this driver 's license , he killed four people , a family of four , in a truck-car accident in baileyton , tennessee .  now , the criminal complaint says that the scam worked as follows : foreign nationals paid sponsors in chicago up to $ 2 , 000 for help in getting a commercial driver 's license .  several wisconsin residents were paid a one-time fee for use of their addresses .  the clients were transported from chicago to milwaukee via van to banks in milwaukee , where they used the wisconsin addresses to open checking accounts .  after the checks were printed , the clients brought them to the division of motor vehicles as proof of their residency required to take their written tests .  in wisconsin , the written tests were given in english , spanish , and russian .  people who spoke other languages had to bring their own interpreters .  some of the interpreters helped the clients cheat on the tests .  in some cases , the sponsors accompanied the clients to a private facility that has a contract with the state to conduct road tests .  employees there accepted payments that ensured that the clients passed the test whether or not they knew how to drive a truck .  now , because wisconsin does not require proof of legal residency in the united states in order to get a driver 's license , whether it is a regular license or a commercial driver 's license , mr. nazov got a license validly issued by the wisconsin department of motor vehicles , and 3 days later killed a family of four on a highway in tennessee with a truck he did not know how to drive .  now , legislation like this would have been a key move in preventing an illegal alien from getting this driver 's license , a driver 's license he could not have gotten in the state of illinois .  i think this proves that there is more involved to this than border security .  there is an issue of public safety .  and if you do not believe that , ask the family of the people who were killed in tennessee .  mr. speaker , i submit for the record the story from the milwaukee journal sentinel entitled `` tennessee deaths bring new charge. '' tennessee deaths bring new charge : trucker illegally obtained license here a man who got a commercial truck driver 's license illegally in wisconsin killed a family of four on a tennessee freeway , then lied about his actions , according to a criminal compliant unsealed tuesday in federal court in chicago .  nasko nazov , an illegal immigrant from macedonia , is charged with lying to a federal grand jury during an offshoot of `` operation safe road , '' the federal investigation that ultimately led to criminal charges against former illinois gov .  george ryan .  the investigation also revealed that in wisconsin at least 600 people from other states cheated on written exams , bribed officials administering road tests or lied about their residency to get truck driver 's licenses , according to court records .  if convicted , nazov , 45 , of downers grove , ill. , faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison , a fine of up to $ 500 , 000 and deportation .  he also is wanted in tennessee on reckless homicide charges , said randall sanborn , spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office in chicago .  nazov -- who has never lived in wisconsin -- received a wisconsin commercial driver 's license on march 4 , 2003 , according to court records .  three days later he caused a fatal wreck on i-81 near baileyton , tenn. , according to media reports .  edward dean armstrong iii ; his wife , melissa ; his 10-year-old daughter , brittany ; and his 6-year-old son , dean , all were killed .  the family was returning home to virginia after visiting family in knoxville , tenn. , according to the reports .  their 1998 saturn was stuck in traffic because of an earlier accident .  nazov , who was driving a tractor-trailer , first hit a pickup , then plowed into the armstrongs ' car , shoving it under another large truck .  `` we believe there are up to 1 , 000 suspect licenses , and this shows the risk inherent in each of those , '' u.s. attorney steve biskupic said tuesday .  a milwaukee investigation parallel to the one in chicago is continuing , he said .  both probes center on foreign nationals .  according to court records in the chicago case , the scheme worked like this : the foreign nationals paid sponsors in the chicago area up to $ 2 , 000 for help getting a commercial driver 's license .  several wisconsin residents were paid a one-time fee for use of their addresses .  clients were transported from chicago via van to banks in milwaukee , where they used the wisconsin addresses to open checking accounts .  after the checks were printed , the clients brought them to the division of motor vehicles as the proof of residency required to take their written tests .  in wisconsin , the written tests are given in english , spanish or russian .  people who speak other languages must bring their own interpreters .  some of the interpreters helped the clients cheat on the tests .  in some cases , the sponsors accompanied the clients to a private facility that has a contract with the state to conduct road tests .  employees there accepted payments that ensured the clients passed their tests , whether or not they knew how to drive a truck .  the wisconsin rules for licensing are less strict than those in illinois .  there , written tests are offered only in english , and translators are not allowed .  road tests in illinois must be conducted at state offices , not private facilities .  nazov listed an address in the 4200 block of w. loomis road in greenfield on his driver 's license application , according to the charging documents .  he testified before a grand jury in june 2004 that he had lived there for a few months with his girlfriend .  he told federal investigators he remembered only her first name , julie , and that she has since left the country .  he could not provide them with a description of the building , according to the documents .  the owner of the building said he had never rented an apartment to nazov or to a woman named julie .  the owner also found letters from the wisconsin department of transportation addressed to nazov and four other people at the building , according to the documents .  the owner , who told investigations he had not authorized anyone to use the address , has not been charged .  nazov , who speaks macedonian , took his written test with the help of an interpreter , according to court records .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , in december , the president signed into law legislation intended to respond to the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  unfortunately , the legislation that was enacted failed to include several key provisions critical to addressing vulnerabilities found in both the 9/11 commission report and of the 9/11 staff report on terrorist travel .  to that end , on january 26th of this year , i introduced h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the bill , which now has 139 cosponsors , encompasses four of the most important border and document security provisions that the house overwhelmingly approved as a part of h.r. 10 last year .  the goal of the real id act is straightforward .  it seeks to prevent another 9/11-type terrorist attack by disrupting terrorist travel .  the 9/11 commission terrorist travel report stated that `` abuse of the immigration system and the lack of interior enforcement were unwittingly working together to support terrorist activities. '' the report further states that `` members of al qaeda clearly valued freedom of movement as critical to their ability to plan and carry out the attacks prior to september 11th. '' finally , the report observed , `` if terrorist travel options are reduced , they may be forced to rely on means of interaction which can be more easily monitored and to resort to travel documents that are more easily detectable. '' the real id act contains four provisions aimed at disrupting terrorist travel .  first , the legislation does not , does not , try to set states ' policy for those who may or may not drive a car , but it does address the use of a driver 's license as a form of identification to a federal official such as an airport screener at a domestic airport .  american citizens have the right to know who is in their country , that the people are who they say they are , and that the name on the driver 's license is the real holder 's name , not some alias .  second , this legislation will tighten our asylum system , which has been abused by terrorists .  the 9/11 commission staff report on terrorist travel states that `` once the terrorists had entered the united states , their next challenge was to find a way to remain here. '' their primary method was immigration fraud .  irresponsible judges have made asylum laws vulnerable to fraud and abuse .  we will end judge-imposed presumptions that benefit suspected terrorists in order to stop providing a safe haven to some of the worst people on earth .  the real id act will reduce the opportunity for immigration fraud so that we can protect honest asylum seekers and stop rewarding the terrorists and criminals who falsely claim persecution .  liberal activist judges in the ninth circuit have been overturning clearly established precedent and are preventing immigration judges from denying bogus asylum applications by aliens who are clearly lying .  if criminal juries can sentence a defendant to life imprisonment or execution based on adverse credibility determinations , certainly an immigration judge can deny an alien asylum on this basis .  it is one of the foundations of our system of jurisprudence that juries and trial judges should be able to decide cases on the basis of credibility or lack of credibility of witnesses .  this bill will again allow immigration judges to deny asylum claims based on the lack of credibility .  the bill also overturns an even more disturbing ninth circuit precedent that has made it easier for terrorists to receive asylum .  the circuit has actually held that an alien can receive asylum on the basis that his or her government believes that the alien is a terrorist .  third , the real id act will waive federal laws to the extent necessary to complete gaps in the san diego border security fence which is still stymied 8 years after congressional authorization .  neither the public safety nor the environment are benefiting from the current stalemate .  finally , the real id act contains a common-sense provision that helps protect americans from terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  currently , certain terrorism-related grounds of inadmissibility to our country are not also grounds for deportation of aliens already here .  the real id act makes aliens deportable from the united states for terrorism-related offenses to the same extent they would be inadmissible to the united states to begin with .  the act provides that any alien who knowingly provides funds or other material support to a terrorist organization will be subject to immigration consequences .  the real id act will make america a safer place .  it is even endorsed by the 9/11 families for a secure america , an association of family members of 9/11 victims .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  house of representatives , committee on the judiciary , washington , dc , february 9 , 2005 .  dear chairman barton : thank you for your letter , dated february 8 , 2005 , regarding h.r. 418 , the `` real id act. '' as you noted , some of the provisions of the bill contained in section 102 fall within the rule x jurisdiction of the committee on energy and commerce .  i appreciate your willingness to forgo consideration of the bill , and i acknowledge that by agreeing to waive its consideration of the bill , the committee on energy and commerce does not waive its jurisdiction over these provisions .  pursuant to your request , i will include a copy of your letter and this response in the congressional record during consideration of h.r. 418 on the house floor .  sincerely , f .  james sensenbrenner , jr. , house of representatives , committee on energy and commerce , washington , dc , february 8 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : i understand that you will shortly bring h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , to the house floor .  this legislation contains provisions that fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on energy and commerce .  section 102 of the bill provides the secretary of homeland security with the authority to waive applicable environmental law , such as the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and the comprehensive environmental response , compensation , and liability act cercla , for the purpose of building roads and barriers .  as you know , rule x of the rules of the house of representatives gives the committee on energy and commerce jurisdiction over these statutes .  i recognize your desire to bring this legislation before the house in an expeditious manner .  accordingly , i will not exercise my committee 's right to a referral .  by agreeing to waive its consideration of the bill , however , the energy and commerce committee does not waive its jurisdiction over h.r. 418 .  in addition , the energy and commerce committee reserves its right to seek conferees on any provisions of the bill that are within its jurisdiction during any house-senate conference that may be convened on this or similar legislation .  i ask for your commitment to support any request by the energy and commerce committee for conferees on h.r. 418 or similar legislation .  i request that you include this letter in the congressional record during consideration of h.r. 418 .  thank you for your attention to these matters .  sincerely , joe barton , mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of the time .  mr. chairman , several speakers on the other side said that if this bill was law at the time of 9/11 , it would not have made any difference on what id the terrorists used to get on the planes .  that is flat out wrong .  what the bill say is that anyone who is admitted to this country on a temporary visa will have their driver 's license expire as to the date of their visa .  now , mohammed atta , who is the ring leader of 9/11 murderers , entered the united states on a 6-month visa .  that visa expired on july 9 , 2001 .  he got a driver 's license from the state of florida on may 5 , 2001 .  that was a 6-year driver 's license .  had this bill been in effect at the time , that driver 's license would have expired on july 9 , and he would not have been able to use that driver 's license to get on a plane because it was an expired id .  read the bill .  secondly , relative to the asylum issue , what this bill does is two things .  first of all , it says the burden of proof is on the applicant for asylum to prove that they qualify .  what is wrong with that ?  the burden of proof is on anybody who is the plaintiff or an applicant in any type of proceeding .  they have got to prove that they are entitled to the relief that they are requesting , and i will just read from page 3 of the bill .  in general .  the burden of proof is on the applicant to establish that the applicant is a refugee , within the meaning of the law .  to establish that the applicant is a refugee , the applicant must establish that race , religion , nationality or membership in a particular social group or political opinion was or will be the central reason for persecuting the applicant .  so nobody , nobody who falls under that definition will be denied asylum under this bill .  secondly , it says that in sustaining the burden , it allows the trier of fact , the immigration judge in this case , to determine the credibility of the witnesses .  now , the trier of the fact , whether it is a judge or a jury in any other legal proceeding , bases determinations on the credibility of the witnesses as to what verdict is reached .  without this bill , a person can come before an immigration judge , be determined by that judge that they are lying through their teeth , and still get asylum .  that is just flat out wrong , and it is a distortion of the type of jurisprudence that we have had where court proceedings are supposed to determine exactly what the truth is .  there is no one who is lying through their teeth that should be able to get relief from the courts , and i would just point out that this bill would give immigration judges the tool to get at the blind sheik who wanted to blow up landmarks in new york , the man who plotted and executed the bombing of the world trade center in new york , the man who shot up the entrance to the cia headquarters in northern virginia , and the man who shot up the el al counter at los angeles international airport .  every one of these non-9/11 terrorists who tried to kill or did kill honest , law-abiding americans was an asylum applicant .  we ought to give our judges the opportunity to tell these people no and to pass the bill .  mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , this bill does not require the states to do anything or not do anything .  it has been very clear from the beginning of the debate on this legislation .  what the bill does is it says that a driver 's license has to meet certain standards if it is to be acceptable for federal id purposes , such as getting on an airplane .  what the motion to recommit does is force the states to do something , or not do something ; and that goes directly against the notion of federalism that is contained in this bill and which was drafted by the committee on government reform .  the first vote that we had yesterday on this legislation was on whether we should waive the law relative to unfunded mandates .  the vote on that was 228 `` aye '' to 191 `` no. '' the author of this motion to recommit , as well as the 190 who joined him in saying that we should not waive the unfunded mandate law , is now asking the states to have another unfunded mandate .  i would urge all of the 191 who voted `` no '' on the jackson-lee objection to consideration of the rule to bring this up to join me in voting `` no '' on this motion to recommit , together with the 228 who voted the right way yesterday .  vote `` no '' on the motion to recommit ; vote `` aye '' on passage .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 71 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i will perhaps apologize to the gentlewoman from texas .  i had thought that the minority was well equipped to have a document which i will enter into the record from the congressional budget office , a cost estimate dated february 7 , 2005 , concerning h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , which is a summary of the issues that the gentlewoman from texas is bringing up .  the information that the gentlewoman is referencing is addressed within this document by the cbo .  if i could , i would like to summarize for the gentlewoman , pending such time as we get her a copy of this , and i apologize that evidently one has not been provided to her .  and i quote : `` as a result , the additional costs that would be imposed by h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , would not exceed the annual threshold established in the unfunded mandates act , $ 62 million in 2005 , '' which is the annual adjustment rate for inflation .  this bill authorized appropriations for grants to states and appropriations would be under that amount .  and i would be pleased to make sure that the gentlewoman has that at this time .  h.r. 418 -- real id act of 2005 summary : h.r. 418 would authorize the appropriation of such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 for the department of homeland security ( dhs ) to make grants to states to cover the costs of improving the security of driver 's licenses as required by the bill .  the legislation also would make changes to current immigration law that aim to prevent the entry of suspected terrorists into the united states .  cbo estimates that implementing h.r. 418 would cost about $ 100 million over the 2005-2010 period , assuming appropriation of the necessary amounts .  enacting the bill would not affect direct spending or receipts .  h.r. 418 contains several intergovernmental mandates as defined in the unfunded mandates reform act ( umra ) .  cbo estimates that those mandates would impose incremental costs on state , local , and some tribal governments above what they will likely spend under current law .  cbo estimates that costs to those governments will total more than $ 100 million over the 2005-2009 period under current law .  by comparison , we estimate that such costs would total about $ 120 million ( over the 2006-2010 period ) under h.r. 418 .  as a result , the additional costs that would be imposed by h.r. 418 would not exceed the annual threshold established in umra ( $ 62 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) .  the bill would authorize appropriations for grants to states to cover their costs .  this bill contains no new private-sector mandates as defined in umra .  estimated cost to the federal government : the estimated budgetary impact of h.r. 418 is shown in the following table .  the costs of this legislation fall within budget function 750 ( administration of justice ) .  basis of estimate : the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 ( pub .  l. 108-458 ) authorized the appropriation of such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 for the department of transportation to make grants to states to cover the costs of improving the security of driver 's licenses as required by that act .  h.r. 418 would repeal those provisions of public law 108-458 , shift the responsibility of administering this program from the department of transportation to dhs , and require state and local governments to comply with more stringent provisions than under current law .  h.r. 418 would authorize the appropriation of such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 for dhs to make grants to states to cover the costs of complying with the bill 's provisions .  requirements for driver 's licenses and identification cards public law 108-458 created federal standards for issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards and also imposed intergovernmental mandates on state , local , and some tribal governments .  that law , however , gave broad authority to the department of transportation to negotiate the specific requirements of those standards .  based on information from federal , state , and local agencies , cbo assumes that the process for a negotiated rulemaking will give state and local governments the opportunity to help shape federal standards ; those standards are thus likely to be less costly to implement than the requirements of h.r. 418 .  in contrast , the provisions of h.r. 418 are more specific and likely would go beyond what will be required under current law .  specifically , state-licensing agencies would be required to verify the documents presented as proof of identification , residency , and citizenship status .  many of the agencies that issue those documents charge a fee for verification services .  licensing agencies also would have to upgrade computer systems to verify documents and to digitize and store electronic copies of all source documents .  finally , some states that do not currently require background checks for certain employees would face additional costs to complete those checks .  cbo estimates that these additional requirements in h.r. 418 would impose costs above those incurred under current law .  based on information from state representatives , cbo estimates that dhs would spend about $ 20 million over the five-year period to reimburse states for the cost of complying with the legislation , subject to appropriation of the necessary amounts .  driver license agreement in addition , h.r. 418 would require states to participate in the driver license agreement , an interstate database to share driver information that was not included in public law 108-458 .  based on information from the government accountability office and the american association of motor vehicle administrators , cbo estimates that it would cost $ 80 million over three years to reimburse states for the cost to establish and maintain the database .  barriers at u.s.-mexico border the illegal immigration reform and immigration responsibility act provided for the construction of a series of roads and fences along the u.s.-mexico border near san diego to deter entry of illegal immigrants .  all but about three miles of this barrier have been completed .  since february 2004 , completion of the barrier has been delayed because of environmental conflicts with the coastal zone management act ( czma ) .  h.r. 418 would permit dhs to waive this act and any other laws as necessary to complete construction of the barrier .  dhs estimates that it has spent about $ 30 million thus far on the barrier and that it will cost an additional $ 32 million to complete the project .  the agency has less than $ 2 million in unspent funds , which are currently being used to identify acceptable alternative plans to complete the barrier .  in addition , the czma already enables the president under certain circumstances to waive laws as necessary to complete projects deemed of paramount interest to the united states .  other provisions finally , cbo estimates that the bill 's provisions , designed to prevent the entry of suspected terrorists into the united states , would have no significant costs because similar screening procedures already exist .  estimated impact on state , local , and tribal governments : procedures for processing and issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards under current law are in the process of changing due to federal legislation enacted in december 2004 .  the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 created federal standards for states to follow in issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards .  cbo considers these standards to be mandates because any driver 's licenses or identification cards issued after that time would be invalid for federal identification purposes unless they met those requirements .  cbo estimates that those enacted mandates will impose costs on state , local , and some tribal governments over the 2005-2009 period totaling new mandates with significant additional costs h.r. 418 would repeal public law 108-458 and replace it with several new and more stringent intergovernmental mandates for processing and issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards .  based on information from federal agency and state representatives , cbo estimates that those mandates would impose incremental costs on state , local , and some tribal governments above what they will likely spend under current law .  cbo estimates that costs to those governments will total more than $ 100 million over the 2005-2009 period under current law .  by comparison , we estimate that such costs would total about $ 120 million ( over the 2006-2010 period ) under h.r. 418 .  as a result , the additional costs that would be imposed by h.r. 418 would not exceed the annual threshold established in umra ( $ 62 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) .  the bill would authorize appropriations for grants to states to cover their costs .  public law 108-458 created federal standards for issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards and also imposed intergovernmental mandates on state , local , and some tribal governments .  that law , however , gave broad authority to the secretary of the department of transportation to negotiate the specific requirements of those standards .  based on information from state and local government representatives , cbo assumes that the process for a negotiated rulemaking will give state and local governments the opportunity to help shape federal standards ; those standards are thus likely to be less costly to implement than the requirements of this bill .  in contrast , the provisions of h.r. 418 are more specific and likely would go beyond what will be required under current law .  specifically , state-licensing agencies would be required to verify with the issuing agency ( many that charge a fee for such verifications ) each document presented as proof of identification , residency , and citizenship status .  those state agencies also would have to upgrade computer systems to verify documents and to digitize and store electronic copies of all source documents .  finally , certain states that do not currently require background checks for certain employees would face additional costs to complete those checks .  cbo estimates that these additional requirements in h.r. 418 would impose costs above those that will be imposed by the mandates in current law .  the incremental additional costs , however , are unlikely , by themselves , to exceed the annual threshold established in umra in any one year .  mandates with no significant additional costs the bill also contains several other intergovernmental mandates .  cbo expects , however , that these requirements would probably not impose significant additional costs on state , local , or tribal governments .  specifically , the bill would : authorize the secretary of the department of homeland security to waive any laws necessary to complete construction of a physical barrier between the united states and mexico near san diego , california , and prohibit any court from having jurisdiction to hear claims or ordering relief for damage resulting from the waiver of such laws .  this provision would preempt state authority .  require states to implement training classes for employees to identify fraudulent documents ; and require documents and supplies to be securely stored .  according to state officials , it is likely that states currently comply with those requirements .  prohibit states from accepting any foreign document , other than an official passport , for identification purposes for the issuance of driver 's licenses .  currently , at least 10 states accept identification cards issued by foreign governments , such as the `` matricula consular '' issued by mexico .  this prohibition would preempt state authority .  require states to resolve any discrepancies that arise from verifying social security numbers , though the language is unclear as to what specific actions would be required .  currently , at least two states prohibit their employees from enforcing immigration laws , and many of those discrepancies may be related to immigration .  this requirement might preempt those state laws .  require that driver 's licenses and identification cards be valid for no more than eight years .  currently two states , arizona and colorado , are valid for longer than eight years .  these provisions would preempt those state laws and impose two to four years of additional staff costs to reissue the licenses sooner than expected .  those costs would not be incurred until eight years after the bill is enacted .  in addition , four other states -- montana , new mexico , oregon , and wisconsin -- issue driver 's licenses and identification cards that are valid for eight years .  the bill authorizes the secretary to further limit the validity of licenses and these states , as well as others , may be affected if the secretary exercises such authority .  this provision would preempt state authority .  authorize the secretary to prescribe the design formats of driver 's licenses and identification cards to protect national security and allow for clear visual differentiation between levels and categories of documents .  such design has traditionally been determined by states and under current law ; any standards developed under the provisions of public law 108-458 may not require a single design .  this provision would preempt state authority .  other impacts on state and local governments in addition to the other requirements of the bill , states would be required to participate in the driver license agreement , an interstate compact to share driver information .  any costs to state governments would be incurred voluntarily as a condition of receiving federal assistance .  estimated impact on the private sector : this bill contains no new private-sector mandates as defined in umra .  estimate prepared by : federal costs : mark grabowicz ; impact on state , local , and tribal governments : melissa merrell ; and impact on the private sector : paige piper/bach .  estimate approved by : peter h. fontaine , deputy assistant director for budget analysis .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do appreciate and respect the gentleman from michigan 's joining with the gentlewoman from texas in bringing this issue before the house today .  i would offer perhaps a different vision or view of the words that the gentleman has spoken .  i believe that the republican majority did sponsor the legislation for the unfunded mandates act ; however , i believe at the time that was done , there was a general understanding that unfunded mandates would have a threshold that was necessary to be met so that we would have to appropriately understand those items when we would have an unfunded mandate that would be necessary for us to understand what we were placing upon the states or municipalities that we would not then appropriate money to .  the gentleman is at least correct that the republican majority did introduce this legislation and pass it .  however , the threshold that was established at that time , now as a result of inflation several years later , we are aware of , and that is why we have made sure to ask the question about what we are imposing on states for this very important issue that is within the jurisdiction of these states , but as a result of the needs of this great nation to address driver 's license inconsistencies and the integrity behind those .  we believe it is necessary .  so for the gentleman to bring this point of order with the gentlewoman from texas , purely appropriate , i would remind all of my colleagues that we have addressed this issue , that cbo has been very clear that we do not reach those thresholds which would trigger this sort of point of order .  so i would ask that my colleagues would pay attention not only to this argument but to understand that we have not violated any rule as it relates to the unfunded mandate .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentlewoman from texas has politely articulated something that i believe is misguided and inappropriate .  the congressional budget office is a professional organization that assists the united states congress in knowing in a nonpartisan way those impacts of the laws that we pass , and i have respectfully made sure that the gentlewoman had a copy and had been advised that before she came to the floor , evidently , the minority was in possession of this new document of 2005 .  and the committee on rules , in a meeting that we had yesterday where we considered this legislation , had to understand the implications or some of the implications as it related to this act , and we rely upon the current information that has come from the congressional budget office .  so i am very disappointed that my colleague has chosen to think that we have placed pressure upon this professional organization , that we have fudged the numbers ; and i would say to the gentlewoman from texas that that , i believe , is not only an unfair accusation to this member but , more specifically , to the congressional budget office , which i believe is a professional organization , delivers a product that they put their name on and makes available to all who might read it .  so i respectfully disagree with the gentlewoman , do not accept the characterization that she has given to this member or to the congressional budget office , and would hope that the gentlewoman would find the time perhaps later in the day to bring this issue up upon full scrutiny of the documentation to recognize that , in fact , the professional conduct of the congressional budget office was correct in their assertion .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , we have had an opportunity to hear from the gentlewoman from texas about a document that is old , that contained the best estimate and work at the time from the congressional budget office .  i have made available to the gentlewoman from texas and for each and every member of this body to see that the congressional budget office has very clearly talked about the costs that would be associated with what might be known as an unfunded mandate .  we believe , and they have concurred from the congressional budget office that we are well within budgetary amounts to where we would not trigger this unfunded mandate clause .  i think it is important that we do have this law .  i am glad we have debates over how much burden we are placing upon states or municipalities , but in this case , i would urge my colleagues to understand that we have the official document that is as of yesterday by the congressional budget office ; and i would ask that they would support our position , knowing that we have fallen within the rules of the house .  mr. speaker , as a result of this , i would simply say that our position is , we value and hold and believe we are well within the rules of the house of representatives .  mr. speaker , i would like to inquire of the time remaining for both sides .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 75 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do understand that not everybody is in agreement about what we are doing today , but for the members that are paying attention , the 9/11 terrorist travel report of the national commission on terrorist attacks upon the united states , known as the 9/11 commission , said on page 43 , and i would like to quote this : `` september 11 : as the hijackers boarded four flights , american airlines flights 11 and 77 , and united airlines flights 93 and 175 , at least six hijackers used u.s. identification documents obtained and acquired in the previous months , three of which were fraudulently obtained in northern virginia. '' mr. speaker , we would have to really not respect this 9/11 commission if we were not going to follow up on the work that they did .  that is why we are here today .  we are here for the best reason , for the security of this great nation and the wonderful people who care and entrust upon the united states congress the ability to make sure we do all that we can to avoid attacks in the future .  mr. speaker , i would like to advise the gentleman from florida ( mr. hastings )  that at this time i do not have additional speakers .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for asking .  the impetus behind this is , these are aliens who have been ordered deported by a federal judge as a result of a hearing , who do not show up .  they have had their day in court .  the process is through .  they have been ordered deported , and only 13 percent actually are deported .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support both of this rule and the underlying bill , the real id act .  i also want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for his effort in bringing this legislation to the floor .  all of the reforms contained in the real id act are crucial to our national security interests , and all of them will help make america less vulnerable to terrorist attack .  the bill 's provisions include long-overdue and very common-sense safeguards that were recommended specifically by the 9/11 commission .  let me point out just one of those .  `` secure identification should begin in the united states , '' wrote the bipartisan 9/11 commission .  they went on to say , `` the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification , such as driver 's licenses .  fraud in identification documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  at many entry points to vulnerable facilities , including gates for boarding aircraft , sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists. '' the bipartisan 9-11 commission called for this legislation .  just a moment ago i heard one of my colleagues say this legislation does not improve upon the bill we passed dealing with the issue just a few months ago .  i beg to disagree .  her point was , it does not address the issue of those who are here illegally , yet it very much does so .  a provision of this bill pushed by my colleague , the gentleman from arizona ( mr. flake )  , for a number of years , provides that a driver 's license may not have an expiration date beyond the date upon which someone 's visa expires .  that would specifically go to people here illegally .  let me point out how it would have applied to the 9/11 hijackers .  looking at nawaf alhazmi , his visa expired in january of 2001 , yet he got a florida 's driver 's license in june of 2001 , he got a virginia id card in august of 2001 , and he got a reissued virginia id card in september of 2001 .  a second hijacker , hani hanjour was in the same situation .  he was in violation of his visa when he obtained a virginia state id in august of 2001 and a maryland id in september of 2001 .  these are critical reforms to making america safer .  i urge my colleagues to vote for both the rule and the underlying legislation .  mr. chairman , welcome to the world of mohammed atta : legal visa to come in , 6 months ; driver 's license from florida , 6 years .  like many in this chamber , i was a strong supporter of the intelligence reform legislation passed last year , but when i voted for it , i believed we needed to go further in several areas , including strengthening driver 's license guidelines .  in my home state of connecticut , we take strong steps to ensure the integrity of our identification cards , but we are not perfect .  to receive a driver 's license in connecticut , you must prove you are a legal resident of the state , and you are not a legal resident of the state if you are not legally present in the united states , period .  this is common sense to me .  driver 's licenses are verifiable forms of identification in the united states .  providing such identification cards to people who are illegally present in our country presents serious concerns .  the problem , however , is that not all states maintain this high standard .  that means that someone who is illegally present in the united states and takes advantage of a weak law in another state can obtain a driver 's license and use the document to identify him or herself in the state of connecticut .  they can also use that document to access federal buildings , rent a vehicle or get on a plane .  tightening access to state-issued identification cards is an important and necessary improvement for our homeland security .  many members have raised concerns about the impact of driver 's license provisions in h.r. 418 in our home states .  connecticut governor jodi rell stated , `` in my view , if a noncitizen is lawfully in this country , he or she should be able to obtain a driver 's license for the time frame in which he is lawfully allowed to be here .  conversely , if someone is in this country illegally , he or she should not be able to obtain a driver 's license in connecticut or any other state. '' i could not agree more with her .  frankly , most of our constituents could not agree more with her .  let me raise one other point about this legislation and commend the chairman for including this provision .  a legally present visitor to the united states can obtain a driver 's license in connecticut , as he can in other states .  however , in connecticut we issue licenses for 6 years at a time .  in that time , visitors can leave and come back , whether legally or illegally , an untold number of times .  during subsequent visits , this person can continue to use the license for whatever purpose he or she wants .  this is wrong .  frankly , it is stupid .  requiring a temporary id for persons temporarily in our country is a no-brainer .  i do not think mohammed atta would like it , but , i do not care what he wants .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i will vote in favor of this bill .  we can not let our troops down who are out there on the front line .  let me wish our new chairman the very best in his maiden voyage through this body on the floor .  mr. chairman , i want my colleagues to know that my vote is not a full endorsement of the bill .  i am troubled that we continue to resort to supplementals to fund our efforts in iraq and in afghanistan .  i think we can do a better job making sure our troops on the front line have everything they need if we put funding for these operations up front in the fiscal year rather than halfway through it like we are doing in a supplemental like this .  i also think we should require more rigorous accounting of the war costs .  this is important .  we need better information to conduct our constitutional duty of oversight .  most important , my reservations have to do with the fact that we still do not have a coherent strategy for success in iraq .  when i go back home i get questions from my constituents about the war in iraq and its costs .  what is the meaning of winning in iraq ?  how will we know when we have won and we can leave , especially when for every insurgent we kill there seems to be another to take his place ?  are we trying any more to win the hearts and minds of the iraqi people ?  if so , when will the iraqis be ready to take over their own security ?  many in the administration have said we can not put a timetable on the withdrawal .  i agree .  we can not put a timetable on it .  but while we should avoid a schedule , we must have a `` to do '' list .  we must set goals for the iraqi forces .  we must be able to measure the progress of those iraqi forces in attaining those goals .  i voted for the resolution authorizing the use of force in iraq .  i will vote for this bill .  we must win in iraq .  but i see no game plan .  there is nothing in this bill that forces the administration to level with us and to level with the american people about either the real costs or about our strategy for success .  in my opinion this is a missed opportunity .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to vote for this bill , but we should all realize that this is far from a perfect way of running operation iraqi freedom .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , this bill is the first step back on the long road to real homeland security .  first , this bill prevents terrorists and others from getting driver 's licenses by requiring applicants to prove that they are in the country legally .  driver 's licenses can be used to board an aircraft , open a bank account and get a job .  to preserve our security , we must deny terrorists the ability to obtain this form of identification .  in addition , this legislation makes it harder for terrorists to exploit our asylum system .  it also requires the completion of the 14-mile san diego border fence , which congress approved in 1996 .  finally , mr. chairman , this legislation strengthens our ability to deport terrorists .  current law makes terrorists inadmissible for certain offenses but not deportable for those same offenses .  congress can improve homeland security by passing this legislation .  but if the administration wants to continue to protect the lives of americans , it can also take immediate steps to change policies that have encouraged illegal immigration .  it should start by requesting funding for all of the border enforcement positions that congress authorized last year .  the president 's budget only requests enough funds for 210 new border patrol agents , even though congress authorized 2 , 000 new agents .  further , the administration must start fining employers for hiring illegal immigrants .  last year it did not fine a single employer .  the administration also should change its policy of recognizing consular identification cards issued by other countries .  these cards are simply not secure or reliable .  they give terrorists and illegal aliens another way to remain undetected in the united states .  mr. chairman , the real id act marks the beginning of an effort to make america safer .  i hope the administration will fully support us in this effort .  mr. chairman , i would simply like to submit my statement for the record on this particular issue in opposition to the real id act .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong opposition of the real id act .  h.r. 418 is mean-spirited legislation that threatens our national security by depriving law enforcement officials of critical information on many adults who are physically present in the united states .  the driver 's license real id act will also impose additional requirements on states , without providing funding , and interfere with what is inherently a state responsibility .  the real id act will also raise insurmountable hurdles for refugees seeking asylum .  this bill will negatively affect women refugees seeking asylum from honor killings , rape and sex trafficking , since most women can not provide direct proof of torture .  i do not understand how supporters of this bill can turn their backs on victims of sex trafficking in the name of protecting homeland security .  finally , i am particularly disappointed that the authors of this bill have ignored real security threats .  like the need to upgrade the safety of our chemical and nuclear plants .  instead they have introduced a sweeping new law that allows the department of homeland security to unilaterally strip away civil rights , labor , health and environmental laws to build a border fence .  this will be done without any recourse for the average american citizen impacted by the construction .  this does n't make our country safer , it just takes away the liberties that make america a model for the world .  i strongly urge all members to vote `` no '' on h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , today i voted in support of the fiscal year 2005 iraq and tsunami relief supplemental .  this decision was difficult for me .  i strongly opposed the real id act of 2005 .  the real id act has no place on a bill to fund support for our military families and tsunami victims .  in fact , i voted against h.r. 418 when it was considered by the u.s. house of representatives on february 10 , 2005 .  this type of political game was vicious attempt to portray those who believe real id is a bad policy as unpatriotic , and i refuse to make servicemembers and their families ' losers of that game .  i voted for this spending bill because it includes equipment and services that our troops and their families need desperately .  it includes additional funds for health care services , mental health for veterans , active duty servicemembers and their families , and financial assistance to help members of the national guard transition back into civilian life .  this legislation also provides an increase in the amount of life insurance for troops , an increase in the death benefit for families of fallen military members , and provides additional funding so our troops have the armored humvees and personal protection they need while serving in iraq .  with the knowledge we have today about the lack of protective equipment and inability of our system to serve military families , i do not believe that withholding funds from our military families and tsunami victims is the right way to solve the predicament the bush administration has created .  i remain very concerned about the bush administration 's lack of a clear exit strategy in iraq and i will continue to fight for real immigration reform and for a clear plan so our troops can come home and democracy can thrive in an iraq run by iraqis .  mr. chairman , i 'm starting to wonder if the republican majority was listening to the president when he called for the united states to act as a beacon of freedom for the world .  for our first substantive legislation of the year , they would make it nearly impossible for victims of torture and religious persecution to seek refuge in the u.s. and they would get us ever closer to establishing a national id .  we all accept that sometimes freedom must be sacrificed for security , but the 9/11 commission itself said that these big brother , anti-immigrant provisions do nothing to enhance national security .  this bill makes changes to the asylum process and state drivers licenses , presumably to address the widely-reported anecdote that the first world trade center bombers abused the asylum system and had a total of 63 drivers licenses .  however , you have to question the motives of the supporters of this bill when the asylum system was already strengthened ten years ago and the 63 drivers licenses are simply an urban legend .  the 9/11 commission found that the hijackers actually had 13 , and this bill would not have prevented any of them from being issued .  so without making the country safer , we 're going to deny refugees and victims of torture , rape , and other atrocities safe haven in this supposed beacon of freedom .  i guess the asylum system , which is the most rigorous immigration process in this country , resulting in 30 , 000 denials last year , is not good enough for the immigrant-bashers .  if this bill were to become law , an asylum applicant would have to provide documentary evidence of persecution .  i hope that residents of the darfur region of sudan remember to grab their personal files as their villages are being burned , because under this law , the presumption of credibility would go to the torturers and rapists .  the bill would also retroactively make legal donations , even donations made decades ago , grounds for deportation of green-card holders who have lived here for decades if the organization to which a donation was made was later added to a government terrorist list .  the last section of the bill then goes after american citizens .  the sponsors know that nobody would support a national id , so they 're just going to turn your drivers license into one without telling you .  it 'll look the same , but if this bill became law , all states would have to share all drivers license information in a national database , including identifying information , drivers ' histories , and motor vehicle violations .  on behalf of the oppressed people of this world who actually believed president bush when he said the u.s. would stand with them , and on behalf of americans who do n't confuse secret databases with security , i will vote no on this bill .  mr. chairman , i can not support the president 's request to spend billions more for this protracted war in iraq .  it 's time to bring our troops home .  next week we will commemorate the second anniversary of the war and u.s. occupation .  over 1 , 500 american lives have been lost along with countless numbers of iraqi civilians .  over 11 , 000 americans have been wounded .  the world is still not a safer place .  what have we gained ?  i disagree with those who claim a vote for this bill is a vote to support our troops .  i stand behind these brave americans and believe they ought to have every resource to protect them .  how is it supporting our troops to keep them in harms way without a plan to win this war ?  how is it supporting our troops when we continue to allow the bush administration to spend hundreds of millions of dollars at will on no bid government contracts with no oversight ?  how is it supporting our troops when we do n't provide for mental health services for those troops traumatized in combat ?  for all of these reasons , i 'm voting `` no '' on the president 's $ 81.3 billion supplemental request .  it is time for a plan to bring our troops home , not give the president another blank check .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this supplemental appropriations bill for iraq and afghanistan .  at $ 82 billion , this is the second largest supplemental appropriations request passed by congress .  this is on top of an already bloated $ 400 billion defense budget .  instead of borrowing more from our children , congress ought to instead stop wasteful spending on ineffective , redundant and unnecessary weapons programs .  a supplemental of this size would n't even be necessary if congress dumped pie-in-the-sky missile defense programs , put a stop to the delayed and over budget f-22 and f-35 , and ended the boondoggle osprey that 's unsafe for our troops .  there is , however , a larger , more fundamental issue here .  the bush administration refuses to live up to the human costs of this ongoing war .  over 1 , 500 young americans dead , over 12 , 000 young americans maimed and wounded and countless iraqi civilians killed in the continuing bloodshed .  the message of my vote against this bill today is clear .  the immediate withdrawal of u.s. troops from iraq is necessary if the united states is serious about bringing peace and security to the iraqi people .  the continued presence of an american occupying force only intensifies the resentment , anger and distrust that fuels the ongoing violence against our troops .  it 's time to bring our troops home .  this message is lost on the bush administration .  they 've sought to establish american dominance in the region and to pursue regime change at any cost .  they 'll stay the course whatever the tragic consequences for the wives , husbands and families of our soldiers .  these brave young americans face down deadly conflict in the streets each and every day .  we honor their courage and service .  but , for their sake , everyone of us in this house must consider the burden they bear .  is it worth it for them and for all of us ?  america is not safer today two years after the capricious preemptive invasion of iraq .  terror networks continue to grow and recruit in response to the us ' arrogant preeminence in the middle east .  terrorism has been brought to the front door of america : waged mercilessly against our troops in places like baghdad and tikrit .  that terror wo n't stop until we get serious about involving the world in solving this conflict .  we must actively involve arab states , the united nations and our major world partners in taking a stand against these insurgents -- and in taking our place .  a large , multinational peacekeeping force is the soundest way forward to end the war and win the peace .  the bush administration can continue to throw billions at halliburton without real accountability .  they can continue to look the other way as profiteering trumps genuine reconstruction in iraq .  they can laud its new democracy as one of the key foundations necessary to sustain it -- iraq 's economy -- continues to flounder .  the bush administration can do all these things , but the end of this war will not come any day sooner .  what america needs most is honest leadership and a clear strategy for iraq .  that 's not reflected in this bill .  its just more money thrown at a crisis we can not solve through force of will alone .  that is our problem here today .  congress wo n't force our president and his advisors to live up to their failure .  we 'll vote to give them another blank check without addressing the fundamental illusion of our iraq policy : we can win the peace alone .  that 's a costly falsehood .  i urge my colleagues to take responsibility for the lives of our soldiers , iraq 's future , and the future security of the united states and the world .  vote down this bill .  it is time to bring our troops home .  mr. speaker , i thank my distinguished colleague for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in favor of the rule and in support of the underlying bill , the real id act .  this is probably one of the most important bills that we will have to vote on in the 109th congress .  the bill obviously will strengthen our borders , improve the rule of law , and protect our national security .  it builds upon the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  these are things they have talked about and had recommended , and it begins to respond to the pleas of the many families who lost loved ones on that terrible day .  it implements much needed driver 's license reform .  now , driver 's licenses have become the primary id in the united states .  it enables individuals to go get other identity documents , to transfer funds to u.s. bank accounts , obtain access to federal buildings and other vulnerable facilities , purchase a firearm , rent a car , board a plane , et cetera .  so lax standards and loopholes in the current issue process allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses , often multiple licenses from different states , and abuse the license for identification purposes .  the real id act corrects this .  identification documents are the last opportunity to ensure that the people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists .  the real id act would require applicants to provide proof that they are in this country legally .  currently , 11 states do not have such a requirement , meaning the majority of states have already recognized the need for tighter requirements and standards , but unnecessary and dangerous gaps still exist in this system .  so that is why we need this .  i urge my colleagues to support the rule and the bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the emergency wartime supplemental , especially the provision that would postpone reducing the number of navy aircraft carriers from 12 to 11 .  our nation is at war against global terrorism and reducing the number of aircraft carriers would be a huge blow to our nation 's defense at this very critical time .  since the end of the cold war , carriers have been kept very busy and have proven their value in numerous operations .  in this era of uncertain u.s. access to overseas air bases , the value of carriers as sovereign u.s. bases that can operate in international waters , free from political constraints , is particularly significant .  during the past half century , the carrier force has never dropped below 12 ships , illustrating the enduring need for a force of at least that many ships .  after experimenting with an `` 11 + 1 '' carrier force in fy1995-fy2000 , dod returned to a force of 12 fully active carriers , suggesting that dod was dissatisfied with a force of less than 12 fully active carriers .  this provision in the supplemental would effectively delay the decommissioning of the uss kennedy until 6 months after the quadrennial defense review is released .  the kennedy is based at the mayport naval station near jacksonville , florida .  aside from concerns of this move striking a blow to national security , the carrier 's retirement would mean an estimated loss of $ 300 million a year to the local economy .  furthermore , if the kennedy were retired , all of the atlantic fleet 's carriers would be , for some time at least , home ported in a single location .  this , of course , would not be in the best interest of national security .  decommissioning the kennedy before the qdr is complete could prove to be a very costly and ill-timed decision .  the qdr may conclude that a fleet of 12 aircraft carriers is essential to our nation , thus necessitating that the uss kennedy be operational .  in a time of war , it is unwise to retire an aircraft carrier without knowing whether or not it will be needed .  mr. speaker , i urge members of congress to carefully examine the effects that retiring the kennedy and reducing the number of carriers would not only have on our nation , but the world at large .  please join me in supporting the supplemental and the provision that keeps the number of carriers in the navy 's fleet contained therein .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule and h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  the 9/11 commission report stated that the abuse of the immigration system and a lack of interior immigration enforcement were unwittingly working together to support terrorist activity .  this bill will establish common-sense requirements for proof of identification for all driver 's licenses and state-issued identification cards .  this would stop the abuse of our asylum system by terrorist aliens and finish construction of a border fence that will secure one of the most trafficked corridors for illegal aliens and safeguard the united states naval base in san diego , california .  we know that all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some type of u.s. identification documents .  in fact , the 19 hijackers had 63 driver 's licenses among them .  these licenses assisted the terrorists in boarding commercial flights , renting cars and other activities necessary to carry out their horrible plans .  this legislation ensures that terrorists will not be able to game our system any longer and we can not allow mass murderers into our country any longer .  mr. speaker , according to the u.s. immigration and customs enforcement agency , more than 3 million illegal aliens came across our border last year , and i bet probably more than that .  we have no idea where they are or where they are from .  however we do know that during the 9-month period from october , 2003 , through june , 2004 , over 44 , 000 non-mexican aliens were caught trying to cross the northern and southern u.s. borders .  among these aliens , several hundred were from the mideast countries unfriendly to the united states .  without this legislation , many more will come ; and this is a risk we can not afford to take .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , the republican majority claims that this bill is an effort to prevent terrorists from entering the united states , not an effort to play partisan politics over immigration reform .  i would like to take them at their word , but if this bill really were about keeping terrorists out of the country , why is the republican majority not talking about the real threats of terrorists ' entry ?  why is the republican majority not concerned about the complete lack of an interagency border security plan ?  and why does the president 's budget not fully fund the mandates in the 9/11 intelligence bill , which we passed and he signed a few short months ago ?  why sign a bill if you have no intention of actually funding the items in the bill ?  mr. chairman , just one example : the president 's budget only provides for 210 new border patrol agents , even though the 9/11 intelligence bill authorized up to 2 , 000 .  we have caught at least one suspected terrorist who illegally waded across the rio grande .  why is the republican majority not talking about the failure of this administration to ensure that our frontline officers are able to check suspicious individuals against a comprehensive terrorist watch list ?  more than 3 years after 9/11 , why are more of our frontline personnel using obsolete name-checking systems , that have trouble telling the difference between `` bin laden '' and `` lyndon ?  `` is this real security ?  does this make america safer ?  this bill wholly fails to address these and other critical gaps in our border security .  the bill focuses on people already in the united states instead of keeping terrorists out .  the one aspect of this bill that seems directed at keeping people out of the united states is section 102 .  i understand this section originated from a desire to complete approximately 3 miles of a 14-mile fence along the border near san diego .  let me be clear : i am not against building a fence , but i do not think a fence will keep terrorists out of america .  homeland security expert stephen flynn , who is a retired commander of the u.s. coast guard , and jeane kirkpatrick , senior fellow in national security studies at the council on foreign relations , testified before the senate foreign relations committee that `` great powers have been building great walls throughout history .  the great wall of china and the berlin wall went up at considerable expense and treasure and ultimately failed to block or contain the forces they purported to obstruct. '' mr. flynn says that efforts by the united states to `` protect '' the southwest border , including installing a fence between san diego and tijuana , are similarly fated to fail .  mr. chairman , it is clear that this is not a good bill , and we are completely in opposition to it .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his leadership on this most important issue affecting our country .  i am a cosponsor of the real id act that calls for necessary reforms in our driver 's license processes to make it harder for terrorists to obtain driver 's license to use them for acts of violence in our country .  driver 's licenses can be used by terrorists to enter buildings , obtain other forms of identification , and board flights .  the loopholes that currently exist in issuing driver 's licenses have to be closed to stop those who would use driver 's licenses as a tool in committing terrorist acts on our own soil .  in fact , as we have heard , we know that many of the hijackers who attacked our nation on september 11 possessed valid driver 's licenses and many other state-issued identity cards .  the real id act would require applicants to prove that they are in this country legally .  the debate here somewhat surprises me because i bet if you asked the american people if in order to get a driver 's license , if you have to prove that you are in this country legally , overwhelmingly i believe the people in this country would believe that not only is it the right thing to do but they would be surprised to find out that it is not already a requirement .  the 9/11 commission stated that all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification , and that for terrorists travel documents are as important as weapons .  and their recommendation stated secure identification should begin in the united states .  the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification such as driver 's licenses .  last year as we heard the steady beat to implement the 9/11 commission recommendations , certainly , their recommendation that the federal government have standards for driver 's licenses is something that we ought to enact , and i support this bill .  mr. speaker , this conference report includes some items that i strongly support , and other things that i think should not have been included .  on balance , i will vote for it because i think it would unrealistic and irresponsible to do otherwise .  most of the money appropriated by this legislation is for our ongoing military activities , especially in iraq .  passage of this conference report will bring the total cost of operations in iraq to well over $ 200 billion -- and by now , two years after president bush prematurely announced the end of major military activities in iraq , i think even those who have been uncritical supporters of the administration should be deeply concerned about the escalating costs , not just in money but in casualties .  the time has come -- in fact , it is long since past -- for the administration to be candid about the costs not just of the war in iraq but of the administration 's overall foreign policy .  this should be the last time that the administration or the congress pays those costs through a supplemental appropriation bill instead of the regular budgetary and appropriation process .  the american people deserve to know in advance what they will be asked to pay to support the administration 's policies .  nonetheless , congress must not fail to supply our troops .  funds in this conference report will pay for more resources , including body armor and military equipment , needed to safeguard their lives .  the conference report also includes important provisions to raise the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 and to include a new insurance benefit of up to $ 100 , 000 for soldiers who have suffered traumatic injuries .  the report also increases funding for body armor for the army and marines , add-on vehicle armor kits , night-vision equipment , and electronic roadside-bomb jammers -- and includes funding for contract linguists for the army .  further , there is an imperative need for this funding .  the defense department reports that operating funds for the army are nearing exhaustion and that it will be necessary to transfer more than $ 1 billion from other accounts to continue essential activities at home and abroad until these supplemental funds are available .  in short , the choice before us today is to vote for this supplemental or , by voting against it , to in effect require an immediate halt to military operations not just in iraq but elsewhere .  and while i remain convinced it was an error to rush into war in iraq , i am equally convinced it would be just as much an error to rush to withdraw .  we do need a strategy to get us out -- which is why i 'm pleased that the conferees included language directing the secretary of defense to provide congress with a report that identifies security , economic , and iraqi security force training-performance standards and goals , accompanied by a timetable for achieving these goals .  but an immediate departure is neither good strategy nor would it mean peace for iraq .  i recently returned from my second trip to iraq -- this time as a member of the house armed services committee .  as a critic of the bush administration 's policy in iraq , i did not go there to confirm my opposition to the war , but rather , to gain knowledge based on face-to-face conversations with our military leaders , the iraqi leadership , an extraordinary group of iraqi women , and most important for me , with our troops on the ground .  i am convinced that there can be no successful exit strategy without first doing what is needed to enable the new iraqi government to take up the burden of providing security .  that will take time and money , and in the meantime we must maintain our efforts .  as the former head of american forces in northern iraq , brig .  gen .  carter ham , said recently , `` we do n't want a rush to failure. '' so , for me , the need to support the military funding in this conference report -- however unpleasant -- is clear .  the conference report also provides funding for tsunami disaster relief as well as for assistance in darfur , food aid to sudan and liberia , and for peacekeeping programs , most of which are for sudan .  importantly , the bill appropriates the president 's request of $ 200 million for economic development in the west bank and gaza strip .  other parts of the conference report are problematical , particularly the inclusion of provisions like those in the `` real id act , '' legislation that i opposed when the house passed it in february .  i believe these provisions will not strengthen national security , but will create undue difficulties for asylum seekers and excessively expand the powers of the secretary of homeland security .  this is a controversial issue that should have been addressed separately , not incorporated into this legislation .  an editorial in today 's rocky mountain news says this part of the conference report `` has much more to do with immigration than security '' and is just `` one piece of a policy , poorly thought out and scarcely debated at all , and likely to have unintended consequences. '' i think that is an accurate description .  the conference report also includes a provision that would revise the h-2b visa program , under which people can come into the country legally for seasonal non-agricultural work .  several industries in colorado are heavily dependent on the h-2b visa program to provide seasonal employees -- some in the summer and some in the winter .  while most of these companies try hard to find americans to fill these jobs , they have not been fully successful .  and the current limit on the numbers of visas has made it difficult for many of them to find the people they need .  so , they have been asking congress to revise the program .  however , while i am pleased that the report attempts to provide relief to companies struggling to find eligible employees , the specific provisions have some problems and may detrimentally affect some of the companies that have employed people entering under the h-2b program .  this is particularly true for companies whose busy season is in the winter , such as the ski industry .  they would actually be detrimentally affected by this provision because they do not rehire the same workers every year , and thus do not benefit from the provisions in the conference report that will exempt previously hired workers from the overall limit on the number of visas .  i wrote to conferees to urge a solution to the h-2b visa problem that would be equitable for both the winter and summer industries .  regrettably , the conference report does not fully meet that test .  still , it does make a good start to addressing the h-2b visa problem .  i hope that we will be able to build on this foundation in the future so as to protect the interests of both summer and winter industries .  the conference report also includes , as section 6063 , provisions to reaffirm the authority of the states and territories to regulate hunting and fishing .  this part of the conference report is identical to the text of h.r. 731 , which i introduced in the house , and to s. 339 , introduced in the senate by senator reid of nevada .  i applaud senator reid 's leadership in having this included when the senate considered this supplemental appropriations bill and i am glad that it was accepted by the conferees .  it will do two things -- ( 1 ) declare as congressional policy that it is in the public interest for each state to continue to regulate the taking of fish and wildlife within its boundaries , including by means of laws or regulations that differentiate between residents and non-residents ; and ( 2 ) provide that courts should not use congressional silence as a reason to impose any commerce-clause barrier to a state 's or tribe 's regulation of hunting or fishing .  its purpose is to reaffirm the authority of states and territories to regulate hunting and fishing by resolving questions that have arisen in the wake of a recent 9th circuit court of appeals decision that held that some arizona limits on non-resident hunting permits had constitutional defects .  ideally , of course , legislation of this sort should be handled through the regular authorization process , and i had hoped that the resources committee would have taken it up by now .  however , state fish and wildlife agencies will soon be considering regulations for coming seasons , and it is important that questions about their authority be resolved without unnecessary delay .  mr. speaker , there is nothing new about a state 's having different rules for resident and nonresident hunters or anglers .  colorado draws that distinction in several ways , and many other states do so as well .  and while there have been challenges to the validity of such rules , until recently the federal courts have upheld the right of the states to make such distinctions .  for example , in 1987 the federal district court for colorado , in the case of terk v. ruch ( reported at 655 f. supp .  205 ) , rejected a challenge to colorado 's regulations that allocated to coloradans 90 % of the available permits for hunting bighorn sheep and mountain goats .  but a recent court of appeals decision marked a change -- something that definitely is new .  in that case ( conservation force v. manning , 301 f.3rd 985 ; 9th cir .  2002 ) , the federal appeals court for the 9th circuit held that arizona 's 10 % cap on nonresident hunting of bull elk throughout the state and of antlered deer north of the colorado river had enough of an effect on interstate commerce that it could run afoul of what lawyers and judges call the `` dormant commerce clause '' of the constitution .  having reached that conclusion , the appeals court determined that the arizona regulation discriminated against interstate commerce -- meaning the `` dormant commerce clause '' did apply and that the regulation was subject to strict scrutiny , and could be upheld only if it served legitimate state purposes and the state could show that those interests could not be adequately served by reasonable non-discriminatory alternatives .  the appeals court went on to find that the regulations did further arizona 's legitimate interests in conserving its population of game and maintaining recreational opportunities for its citizens , but it remanded the case so a lower court could determine whether the state could meet the burden of showing that reasonable non-discriminatory alternatives would not be adequate .  because of the decision 's potential implications for their own laws and regulations , it was a source of concern to many states in addition to arizona .  in fact , 22 other states joined in supporting arizona 's request for the decision to be reviewed by the u.s. supreme court .  colorado was one of those states , and senator ken salazar , who was then colorado 's attorney general , joined in signing a brief in support of arizona 's petition for supreme court review .  regrettably , the supreme court denied that petition .  so , for now , the 9th circuit 's decision stands .  its immediate effect is on states whose federal courts are within that circuit -- namely those in alaska , arizona , california , hawaii , idaho , montana , nevada , oregon , and washington as well those of guam and the commonwealth of the northern marianas .  but it could have an effect on the thinking of federal courts across the country .  the purpose of this part of the conference report is to forestall that outcome , and so far as possible to return to the state of affairs prevailing before the 9th circuit 's decision .  it is intended to speak directly to the `` dormant commerce clause '' basis for the 9th circuit 's decision in conservation force v. manning .  i am not a lawyer , but my understanding is that lawyers and judges use that term to refer to the judicially established doctrine that the commerce clause is not only a `` positive '' grant of power to congress , but also a `` negative '' constraint upon the states in the absence of any congressional action -- in other words , that it restricts the powers of the states to affect interstate commerce in a situation where congress has been silent .  section 6036 ( b ) ( 1 ) would end the perceived silence of congress by affirmatively stating that state regulation of fishing and hunting -- including state regulation that treats residents and non-residents differently -- is in the public interest .  this is intended to preclude future application of the `` dormant commerce clause '' doctrine with regard to such regulations .  and section 6036 ( b ) ( 2 ) would make it clear that even when congress might have been silent about the subject , that silence is not to be construed as imposing a commerce-clause barrier to a state 's regulation of hunting or fishing within its borders .  these provisions are neither a federal mandate for state action nor a congressional delegation of authority to any state .  instead , they are intended to reaffirm state authority and make clear that the `` dormant commerce clause '' -- that is , congressional inaction -- is not to be construed as an obstacle to a state 's regulating hunting or fishing , even in ways that some might claim adversely affect interstate commerce by treating residents differently from nonresidents .  it 's also important to note that this part of the conference report is not intended to affect any federal law already on the books or to limit any authority of any indian tribe .  section 6036 ( c ) is intended to prevent any misunderstanding on these points .  section 6036 ( c ) ( 1 ) specifies that the bill will not `` limit the applicability or effect of any federal law related to the protection or management of fish or wildlife or to the regulation of commerce. '' thus , to take just a few examples for purposes of illustration , this part of the conference report will not affect implementation of the endangered species act , the migratory bird treaty act , the lacey act , the national wildlife refuge administration act , or the provisions of the alaska national interest lands conservation act dealing with subsistence .  section 6036 ( c ) ( 2 ) similarly provides that the bill is not to be read as limiting the authority of the federal government to temporarily or permanently prohibit hunting or fishing on any portion of the federal lands -- as has been done with various national park system units and in some other parts of the federal lands for various reasons , including public safety as well as the protection of fish or wildlife .  and section 6036 ( c ) ( 3 ) explicitly provides that the bill will not alter any of the rights of any indian tribe .  these provisions are narrow in scope but of national importance because it addresses a matter of great concern to hunters , anglers , and wildlife managers in many states .  i think they deserve broad support .  in conclusion , while this conference report is far from perfect , i think it deserves to pass and i will vote for it .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i thank my coauthors , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  and the gentlewoman from north carolina ( mrs. myrick )  .  i want to say it is not an easy task taking on the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  .  i too would like to say i am voting for final passage of the supplemental .  it is important that we have adequate resources for all of our troops .  i have been to iraq twice .  i have been to the current embassy in baghdad twice as well .  i have seen the improvements .  we have spent something like $ 100 million already trying to make that facility safe .  it is within the green zone .  this new embassy where they want to build is just down the river .  frankly , i would have preferred to see it go where camp victory is .  i asked that question , in fact , yesterday .  i was not very pleased with the answer that i got , but maybe in a few more months we will get it right and put it someplace that would be truly safe for all of our folks that are there .  at the end of the day , those are the questions that all of us should be asking .  whether it be in an authorization bill that came through this congress the last year or in the omnibus bill or in the president 's budget for fiscal year 2006 , this bill no matter what train track it is on will not get to the president until may .  we ought to take the time to do this right , to ask the right questions and to make sure that all of our people , whether they work for the state department or whether they work for the armed services , have the right resources ; but it ought to go the regular order .  that is the way this house ought to operate .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  gracias .  i am sorry .  i thought this was english-only here .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i thank my colleague for yielding time to me .  i rise today to raise serious concerns with some of the provisions in h.r. 418 that have not been thoroughly considered , in large part because the bill was not considered by our committee .  no matter what our views are on immigration , states ' rights or a national id , my colleagues should carefully review the driver 's license requirements of h.r. 418 .  simply stated , the bill imposes costly new requirements on states that simply can not be achieved in 3 years allotted by the bill ; and while states may attempt to comply , the bill 's unreasonable deadlines and inadequate funding will create confusion and frustrate the public .  congress previously recognized that states should play an integral role in implementing new driver 's license standards .  that is why the 9/11 legislation that we passed just 2 months ago directed the department of homeland security to consult with the states first and then issue appropriate regulations .  h.r. 418 repeals this sound regulatory approach and leaves the states without a voice .  one of the biggest problem areas is that the bill requires state departments of motor vehicles to verify the issuance , validity , and completeness of birth certificates with issuing agencies .  currently , birth certificates are not issued or maintained in a uniform manner .  states , counties , cities and localities all across the country issue birth certificates .  in fact , experts estimate that up to 14 , 000 jurisdictions within the united states currently issue birth certificates .  many of these jurisdictions do not have automated records but keep paper copies at the local courthouse .  even if they were to begin automated records of new births , they would still need to automate millions of preexisting birth certificates .  h.r. 418 also requires states to verify the issuance , validity and completeness of various other documents with various federal agencies that do not yet have fully automated systems in place .  these requirements will be expensive and time-consuming .  ultimately the databases will be built that will allow states to conduct rapid verification of these birth certificates and other documents ; but in most states and localities , they do not currently exist , and the experts say it will take a whole lot longer than 3 years to create them .  that is why the bill is opposed by the states .  it is opposed by the national governors association , the national conference of state legislatures and even the dmv trade association , the american association of motor vehicle administrators .  the best timeline estimate from state dmvs is that will take 10 to 12 years for all of the required automation to occur .  yet h.r. 418 requires verification within just 3 years .  in the meantime , what will happen ?  states will not be able to issue same-day driver 's licenses , the public will be frustrated , and homeland security will not be advanced .  in addition to the unworkable nature of the driver 's license provisions in this bill , i want to raise my deep concern about section 102 of this legislation .  this section provides the secretary of homeland security the authority to waive any law for the purposes of building immigration barriers along the border .  i do not understand why we need to provide the administration with unilateral authority to waive labor laws , state and local laws , environmental laws , tax codes and criminal laws .  this does not apply just in san diego .  it applies throughout the nation .  i am sad to say this bill presents a dangerous new precedent .  the federal government has never before had unilateral authority to waive child labor laws , civil rights laws , and environmental laws .  for republican members who want to rein in the unchecked authority of the federal government , they might want to carefully examine this provision , which expands it enormously .  i urge my colleagues to oppose the legislation .  mr. chairman , reserving the right to object , just so i understand , i can under this agreement be able to reserve time .  unlike the 5-minute rule , i would be able to reserve portions of my 5 minutes ?  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just quote what the gentleman from wisconsin said in the last debate : `` the government of saudi arabia has greatly increased its effort to root out terrorism .  it has greatly increased its cooperation in intelligence matters and others with the united states. '' the facts that i read just now were within the last months .  it is simply not true .  do not believe the hype .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. kelly )  .  the gentlewoman is right , charles taylor has been responsible for having dealings with al qaeda and conflict diamonds .  charles taylor was the one responsible for cutting off arms and legs of young people in sierra leone and in liberia .  i think the gentlewoman is right , nigeria should return charles taylor so he can have a fair trial .  i think the administration has a moral obligation to ask the nigerians and get him back to go before the court .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the conference report to fund urgent supplemental requirements for the military .  for the state department , we have included just over $ 2 billion , a reduction of $ 199 million from the president 's request .  the bill includes the necessary funds to maintain our diplomatic presence in iraq and afghanistan , and for allowing our personnel to carry out their duties in the safest and most secure manner .  iraq and afghanistan are the front lines of our foreign policy .  this conference report provides the necessary resources for operations , logistics , and security in those dangerous , but critically important , parts of the world .  there is also $ 592 million to allow state to move quickly to build a secure compound in baghdad and , as the gentleman from missouri ( mr. blunt )  said , these facilities are not secure now , and they are needed .  this money will result in the completion of a secure living and working compound facility within 24 months .  the $ 680 million , $ 100 million below the president 's request , pays for the u.s. share of ongoing peacekeeping missions , including a new mission for sudan , where it is absolutely critical , now that there is a north-south peace .  and , by sending this mission there , hopefully , it will bring peace to darfur .  the conference report also includes $ 241.6 million for domestic appropriations to support the war on terror , including fbi counterterrorism efforts and , for dea , a counternarcotics program in afghanistan .  finally , it includes $ 17.2 million to jump-start the improvement of the united states tsunami warning capabilities on both coasts .  the conference report before us provides funding for important security measures for our diplomatic personnel , for our ongoing state department and justice department commitments , and i strongly urge support of the conference report .  mr. chairman , when we shut our doors to the world we shut the door of democracy .  president bush wants the united states to be a leader in promoting freedom around the world , but we fail at home when we deny freedoms to those who desire the american dream .  h.r. 418 fails to reform our system .  instead , it weakens our democracy .  if you vote for this bill you are saying we do n't care if you have been persecuted because of your religion or beaten because of your gender .  stay in your own country .  you are not entitled to our freedoms .  if you vote for this legislation you are saying that the united states does n't care about federal or state laws as long as it means being able to close our border .  who cares if building a wall on our border endangers our environment ?  out of 2 , 000 plus miles along our border with mexico , you are saying that finishing 3 miles of that fenced area in southern california is so important that we should throw out the principles of our democracy and let one man have the power to waive any laws that he wants without any oversight .  are you sure that this is a democratic country ?  mr. chairman , shutting out people around the world from our democracy and throwing away the ideals of freedom that we hold so dear is no to way to be an example for the world .  we need immigration reform but this legislation is not the right answer .  i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this legislation .  mr. speaker , why is congress approving yet another multibillion dollar spending bill when the previous 3 multibillion dollar spending bills have been misused , improperly managed , and , in some cases , downright stolen ?  a report by the special inspector general for iraq 's reconstruction has stated that nearly $ 100 million for reconstruction projects in southern iraq is missing and can not be accounted for .  these funds must be accounted for before allotting one more dollar for the war in iraq .  and where is the congressional investigation into the $ 9 billion that mysteriously disappeared from the books at the coalition provisional authority ?  why are we voting on writing another check for a mission that has been so badly botched ?  who is being held responsible for the misinformation that led us into the war in the first place ?  who is being held responsible for the troops not being equipped and armed with the billions of dollars that we have allocated to iraq ?  where is our exit strategy ?  this bill is nothing short of highway robbery , and the victims are the troops and the american people .  no more blank checks , mr. speaker .  no more wars without reason .  i will vote against the supplemental .  mr. chairman , i compliment the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) for having brought this first of many important appropriation bills to the floor .  he explained the defense part of this bill very well , as well as he should because he has served superbly as chairman of the defense subcommittee for many years .  our portion of the bill is just a little over $ 73 billion , and it is to provide for the warfighters , to provide the equipment that they need and the protection that they need as they go about carrying out their mission .  i want to take just a few seconds and comment on the issue that the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  raised because we have worked together on this section of the bill from the very beginning , along with the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  and the gentleman from missouri ( mr. skelton )  of the committee on armed services , the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  this is truly a work of bipartisanship .  but on the subject of accountability , there is no reason that i can think of other than the importance of the legislative branch of government that article i of the constitution establishes the legislative branch of government .  we have three branches , separate but equal , but right after the preamble the first article is the legislative branch .  so i do not know whether that means we are a little more equal , but i do know that we control the money .  and as i have referred to so many times , and i will continue when it is necessary , it says `` no money shall be drawn from the treasury , but in consequence of appropriations made by law. '' that means nobody can spend money , federal money , unless we appropriate it .  but part of that section that does not get referred to very often says in the same sentence , `` and a regular statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time. '' so we think that is just as important , and we , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  , myself , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  have just recently met with representatives of the defense department .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  and i just recently sent a letter to the secretary of defense outlining our concerns .  i think we have made that point very well .  what we do in this supplemental is to provide , as the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) has mentioned , body armor , the uparmored humvees , ammunition , and medical care .  we provide the soldiers that are fighting in the war with what they need to accomplish their mission and what they need to protect themselves while they are accomplishing their mission .  and the specific details of the bill have been made available to members if they want to see all of the items that are funded in this bill .  i would like to make a brief closing statement that if we are going to get our troops out of iraq , and we are , and we want them out as soon as we possibly can , and as difficult as it is to state a specific date , but the way we are going to get our troops out , our exit strategy is to provide training to the iraqis so they can protect themselves from these terrible , violent insurgent terrorists .  part of the money in this bill goes to do just that , to train the iraqis to protect themselves so that they can have a self-government with some semblance of security .  so part of the money will allow the iraqis to get the training that they need .  that is our exit strategy .  let them take over from the american troops , and our american troops will come home .  and in the meantime , say a prayer for them , the ones that are over there still .  they are still in harm 's way .  they are doing a really great job .  their attitude is mr. speaker , i thank the chairman of the committee on appropriations for yielding me this time .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  , the ranking member on our defense subcommittee , has explained the bill quite thoroughly as it relates to the war fighters .  the biggest part of this supplemental is for war fighters , and the bill that we have put together goes just to that issue .  the increases that we have added in this bill go to the urgently needed items such as ammunition , weapons , up-armored humvees , transport vehicles , jammers , night vision equipment , radios , add-on armor kits ; and the list goes on and on .  and i include a list of those items that are for the war fighter and force protection , mr. speaker .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  and the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and i and many of our colleagues have visited our hospitals to visit with our soldiers and marines at walter reed and at bethesda naval hospital and also at landstuhl , where many of our servicemen come first before they get transported back to the united states , and we have located a number of areas where the government just does not take care of these soldiers and the marines .  and this bill goes a long way towards taking care of that .  it has been pretty generally known that we have in this bill increased the death benefit for those who make the total sacrifice and lose their lives in working and supporting the nation 's security .  we have also increased the service group life insurance programs substantially so that those who prefer to take part in that program can have additional benefits , and many of these benefits are really needed .  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  referred to this , but i want to take just a minute and explain .  we added , basically , a new program , and that is for a traumatic injury insurance benefit for members of the service .  we provide up to $ 100 , 000 to compensate for injuries such as loss of sight , losing a hand or a foot , or other debilitating injuries .  and these benefits would be retroactive to october of 2001 , when the war started .  there are many soldiers and marines today who have been wounded so seriously that in previous wars would have died on the battlefield but who are living today in this war because of improved and increased medical benefits and better training and better medicines and the ability to transport from the battlefield to a medical facility .  so these soldiers and marines are hurt really bad , and we have an obligation to take care of them , and this bill goes a long way toward beginning that process , to take care of things for our heroes and our fallen heroes who have not been taken care of by the government properly .  the material previously referred to is as follows : conference agreement for additional equipment missile procurement , army : itas/tow mods 30 , 000 procurement of weapons and tracked combat vehicles , army : bradley reactive armor tiles 20 , 000 stryker 69 , 540 small arms modifications 55 , 200 procurement of ammunition , army : ammunition industrial base 57 , 800 other procurement , army : up-armored idmwvs ( m1114 ) 150 , 000 other hmmwvs ( m1151 ) 80 , 000 225 , 000 114 , 000 add-on armor kits 48 , 000 sincgars family 30 , 000 improved hf radios ( including prc-150 and prc-148 ) 17 , 000 jammers ( warlock including low cost jammer ) 60 , 000 night vision devices 59 , 000 counter rocket artillery and mortar system ( cram ) 75 , 000 force xxi battle command brigade and below ( fbcb2 ) 66 , 100 handheld stand-off mine detection system ( hstamids ) 10 , 000 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; army total : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 1 , 166 , 640 procurement of ammunition , navy and marine corps : small arms ammunition 6 , 000 procurement , marine corps : light armored vehicle ( lav ) 175 , 000 night vision equipment 54 , 000 radio systems ( including eplrs , prc-117 and hf communications vehicle ) 55 , 000 hmmwvs 30 , 000 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; marine corps total : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 320 , 000 grand total : 1 , 486 , 640 & lt ; p & gt ; mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  first , i would like to thank chairman sensenbrenner and the judiciary committee for their leadership on this bill , and for their dedication to securing our borders and protecting americans from terrorists .  my objective throughout debate over h.r. 10 was to get a bill that fully addressed all of our nation 's security concerns .  that means not only reforming how we gather and use intelligence , but also how we fight terrorism at home .  i believe that the final bill that came to the floor fell short .  that 's why i voted against it .  however , the real id act implements crucial provisions that were dropped from h.r. 10 and fixes several glaring holes in our border security .  one of the most important provisions in this legislation asks states to work with the department of homeland security to establish and use standards for drivers ' licenses .  many states already have licenses that are difficult to counterfeit .  other states do n't have stringent safeguards .  some have argued that this bill creates a national id .  it does n't .  i would oppose any bill that did so .  this bill simply requires states to make it harder for someone like muhammad atta to get a driver 's license , and to use that license to carry out terror plans .  as the 9/11 commission noted : `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification document , some by fraud. '' increased id security will make it more difficult for terrorists to obtain documents through fraud and conceal their identity .  deterring terrorists from receiving state issued ids will make it more likely that they will be detected by law enforcement .  this bill also tightens our asylum system -- a system that has been abused by terrorists with deadly consequences -- by allowing judges to determine whether asylum seekers are truthful .  additionally , the bill will protect the american people by ensuring that grounds for keeping a terrorist out of the country are also grounds for deportation .  incredibly , we have legal justification to prevent an individual from entering the country if they have known terrorist ties , however , under current u.s. law once they set foot inside the border we can not deport them .  this hinders our ability to protect americans from foreign terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  i think all americans -- and those of us on both sides of the aisle -- can agree that the 9/11 commission identified a number of improvements that will help upgrade our intelligence and enhance america 's security .  this bill provides common sense provisions to help prevent another 9/11-type attack by protecting our borders and disrupting terrorist travel in the united states .  i urge members to vote in favor of the real id act .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental and wartime appropriations act of 2005 .  this supplemental provides necessary funding for a variety of military operations and for equipment that will keep our troops safe while they fight the war on terror .  we are asking the brave men and women of our armed forces to put their lives on the line in defense of our freedom .  in return , we should not hesitate to give them the best protective gear that we can provide .  however , i have serious concerns about providing additional non-defense and nonemergency items , such as money for facility construction and international peacekeeping efforts that are included in this supplemental .  i believe that while these items may be vital to our nation 's interests , they are not true emergencies .  i commend the chairman of the appropriations committee , the distinguished gentleman from california , mr. lewis , for his efforts to limit the amount of non-defense and nonemergency funding in this bill .  but , far too often the federal government deems additional spending an `` emergency '' because it was not included in the original budget request .  any non-defense and non-emergency funding should be considered in the regular budget process .  as members of congress , we owe it to the american taxpayer to ensure any new request for emergency spending is thoroughly reviewed and considered in a fair manner on the house floor , especially when essential funding for our nation 's armed forces is at stake .  despite my displeasure in allowing some of these additional items to be included in the supplemental , i support this legislation because congress has a moral obligation to provide our troops with the safest equipment and most up to date training available .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 418 .  twenty-six years ago , when i first came to this chamber , we were speaking about border security .  sixteen years ago , when i left this chamber , we were speaking about border security ; and here we are again .  a fundamental aspect of national sovereignty is that a nation is able to control its own borders .  the nature of this requirement is of particular importance in the post-9/11 environment in which we must all live .  in years past , when those of us on the subcommittee on immigration confronted this challenge , there were traffickers and human cargo and narcotics and the increasing problem of criminal gangs who profit from such enterprises .  today , however , we must deal with the additional worry that these channels of illicit commerce may also include those who enter our country to kill innocent americans and the related concerns of weapons of mass destruction .  the real id act , introduced by the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) , is an important step in meeting this challenge .  in conjunction with the additional border patrol positions authorized by this body at the close of the last congress , h.r. 418 will remove the impediments to completing the fence along the san diego corridor of our southern border .  i want to commend my predecessor in the third congressional district in california , mr. doug ose , who worked hard to remove the regulatory obstacles to completion of the fence .  in today 's post-9/11 environment , it is one component in an integrated u.s. border security system .  there is simply no excuse for the failure to complete the remaining 3 1/2 miles of the security fence .  the language offered by our colleague from wisconsin would allow us to do so .  in our system of governance , the united states government and specifically the congress have given us what is tantamount to plenary jurisdiction over immigration law .  as a former attorney general in my state , i can make the observation that in most areas of the law enforcement , the states and local governments have primary jurisdiction .  that is not the case with immigration enforcement .  as a former president of the other party put it in a different context , `` the buck stops here. '' although i am a committed believer in federalism , the nature of the task and the language of article i , section 8 , are clear .  while this bill in no way preempts state law with respect to the issuance of driver 's licenses , it does entail a modest notion that the immigration laws enacted by this body ought to mean something .  mr. chairman , the most troubling aspect of this bill is that related to asylum .  today 's laws for seeking asylum are the result of lessons learned after world war ii .  after the war , america reflected with shame on how this shining beacon of democracy and freedom turned its back on 1 , 000 jews who fled for their lives on the ship called the st .  louis .  we turned the st .  louis away , not even allowing it to dock in america .  it is estimated that over half of those refugees eventually died .  today , in haiti , cuba and other countries , thousands face death , religious persecution , torture and property confiscation .  this bill virtually closes the door to those who might seek asylum in america .  let us not forget the lessons of history .  i urge my colleagues to keep the doors open to those seeking justifiable refuge .  regarding driver 's licenses , the 9/11 tragedy has been referred to here on this floor referencing the terrorists who obtained driver 's licenses .  let me remind my colleagues that this bill would not affect that situation at all , as all of the terrorists were in this country legally and could have obtained driver 's licenses regardless of this law .  we should heed what florida governor jeb bush said last year when he was talking about driver 's licenses for illegal immigrants .  he said , `` we should n't allow them to come into the country to begin with , but once they 're here , what do you do ?  do you basically say that they are lepers to society , that they do not exist ?  `` he concluded by saying , `` a policy that ignores them is a policy of denial. '' i agree and i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill .  mr. chairman , i rise today to voice my strong support for the real id act , particularly its provisions calling for stronger standards for obtaining driver 's licenses .  page 47 of the 9/11 commission report , `` without freedom of movement , terrorists can not plan , conduct surveillance , hold meetings , train for their mission or execute an attack. '' others have argued that the proposal involves an unprecedented preemption of state authority regarding the issuance and production of driver 's licenses .  this is untrue .  let me be clear : we are not preempting state authority in this area .  what we are doing is establishing minimum standards for federal acceptance of such documents .  this is consistent with actions taken by individual states .  today , nevada and new mexico do not accept as proof of identity a state-issued driver 's license or identification card from states that do not meet their standards .  the federalism issue is one of extreme importance , and that is exactly why the language has been crafted as it has .  driver 's licenses have become the primary form of identification in the united states .  they permit people to apply for other forms of identification , transfer funds to bank accounts , obtain access to federal buildings , purchase firearms and board airplanes .  the majority of the states have recognized the privilege that a license brings and have set high standards for obtaining them .  however , 10 states , including my state of north carolina , issue valid driver 's licenses and identification cards without requiring proof of legal status .  that is scary .  according to the 9/11 commission report , these travel documents are just as important as weapons are to terrorists .  the real id act would require that federal agencies accept only driver 's licenses and state-issued identification cards from states that prove the legal status of applicants .  the bill would also require states to review the legality of existing license holders upon renewal or replacement .  the bill does not seek to set state policy for who may or who may not drive a car .  it aims to set rigorous standards for what may be used as a form of id to a federal official .  as i have stated before , i am a strong advocate of states ' rights .  however , if certain states act irresponsibly and place the national security of the rest of the country at risk , then congress must get involved .  we must do what it takes to make america safe .  i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i do rise to address support for the rule and the underlying legislation and , specifically , a few of the allegations that have been made about this legislation .  first of all , there has been an allegation made that this violates states ' rights .  many of us are firm believers and supporters of states ' rights , and the fact is , the states have the right to give a driver 's license to whomever they wish .  that is their state 's right .  however , this legislation says , if you are going to use that identification card to get on transportation that is in interstate commerce or otherwise , then it is going to have to meet certain minimum standards .  so you have the states ' rights .  however , this federal government has the obligation to protect its citizens , and it is something that should not and will not be taken lightly .  as regards another aspect , asylum , we have a situation in which a legislative body , as it has come to be , that is also known as the ninth circuit court of appeals , has enacted legislation that overcomes and overwhelms a judge 's right and ability to judge credibility as it should .  that has to be overcome by this legislative body , trumping that legislative body called the ninth circuit .  that is what we are trying to do .  i have heard friends across the aisle say that americans have journeyed freely in the past and that this goes against the very freedoms which this nation was founded on .  but the truth is , try getting on an airplane .  we do not have freedom anymore .  and the more liberties that we forgo withdrawing at the border , and restricting and making sure people who are coming in do not mean us harm , then the more liberties we are going to lose in this country .  so it is important that we make sure we have that water metaphorically flowing into this lake to give it life , but it is even more important that we restrict those who would harm us from coming in , as they would .  mr. speaker , i congratulate the chairman on this bill .  it is important that we take care of business with our military .  mr. speaker , having been to iraq this year , i saw our troops , our young men and women from all branches of the service doing the finest job ever representing the concept of freedom and representing the united states ; and they certainly need the supplemental .  however , i am concerned about some of the baggage that seems to have been added to the supplemental .  and i think maybe in the future we should be careful about adding things that are not really important emergencies , such as in this supplemental conferring eligibility for rural housing assistance grants in the village of new miami , ohio ; allowing some farm service accounts for the alaska dairy farmers ; increasing the cost of the fort peck fish hatchery project in minnesota ; and adding to the national center for manufacturing services in michigan ; along with $ 500 , 000 for the oral history of negotiated settlement projects at the university of nevada .  i think these belong in some other bill .  they may be great projects , but they certainly are not emergency projects .  but i do urge all members of the house to support this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise in support today of the real id act .  as the former chief of counterterrorism in the u.s. department of justice for the western district of texas , i had jurisdiction over the mexican-texas border .  i dealt , firsthand really , with the day-to-day threats our nation faces , and asked the question , why are we not doing more to secure our borders ?  many of those intent on doing our nation harm claim political asylum as their trojan horse to gain access to our borders .  individuals like the 1993 world trade center bomber , ramzi yousef , claimed political asylum and was ordered to appear at a hearing .  yet yousef , like a majority of those given notices , failed to show up at the hearings .  this bill will make it easier to deport suspected terrorists .  terrorists have taken advantage of other holes in our laws .  the 19 hijackers on september 11th had fraudulently obtained dozens of american visas , passports and driver 's licenses , documents used to open bank accounts , establish residency and , yes , to fly airplanes .  this border security legislation provides the safety measure that to obtain a driver 's license , the person must simply prove they have a legal right to remain in our nation .  for the safety and security of our nation , our families and our freedom , i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  the 9/11 commission recommended it .  we owe it to the victims of the national tragedy to pass this legislation .  mr. chairman , my opposition to the war in iraq and criticism of the administration 's rationale for engaging our troops in this conflict have been well documented .  as u.s. casualties mount , it is my hope that the administration will craft a plan to facilitate the timely withdrawal of our forces .  for this reason , i am a cosponsor of h. con .  res. 35 which calls on the president to do so .  but in the meantime , despite these reservations , the cold , hard truth of the matter is that our soldiers are in iraq not because they choose , but because they have been ordered there .  and they are under fire every day .  we must make every possible effort to ensure that our troops return home safely to their families .  the legislation before us today provides $ 51 million for `` up-armored '' humvees which protect soldiers from anti-tank mines and armor-piercing munitions .  it appropriates $ 611 million for add-on vehicle armor kits which provide critical protection to drivers and crews against attacks from iraqi insurgents .  also included is $ 50 million for the radio jammers that are installed in our vehicles to prevent attempts by insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines as our troops drive by .  this measure also provides critical increases in financial support to the families of our fallen soldiers .  h.r. 1268 increases the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 .  this benefit provides an immediate cash payment to assist survivors of deceased members of the armed services .  it also increases government subsidized life insurance benefits from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 .  the legislation also provides crucial assistance for emergency situations overseas .  it would give $ 656 million in direct assistance for tsunami disaster relief for countries devastated by the december 26 , 2004 earthquake and tsunami .  in addition , $ 92 million in emergency funds are provided to respond to the humanitarian crisis in the darfur region of sudan where egregious ethnic cleansing has been occurring .  tens of thousands of men , women , and children have been killed during the violence and thousands more die every month in camps housing the nearly 2 million people who have fled their homes .  $ 150 million in emergency food aid , mostly for sudan and war-ravaged liberia , was included in committee .  with a recent glimmer of hope and improved chances for a resolution in the middle east , the bill provides $ 200 million for the west bank and gaza to help the forces for peace seize this opportunity .  this includes $ 50 million for road and water infrastructure improvements , $ 50 million to improve the flow of people and goods into israel , $ 24 million for trade promotion and capacity building , $ 20 million for schools and community centers , $ 16 million for democracy and rule of law programs , $ 15 million for agriculture production and marketing , and $ 13 million for health care .  mr. chairman , while i continue to have grave concerns about the president 's war in iraq , on balance this bill provides funds that will help protect our men and women under fire , gives additional help to the families of those who will never return home , helps consolidate the tentative gains in israel and the palestinian areas , and aids the peoples of other nations who face dire crises abroad .  for these reasons , i will cast my vote in favor of the measure .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition of s. 5 , the so-called `` class action fairness act. '' this bill will send the majority of class action suits from state to federal courts , making it more difficult for people who have been unfairly hurt to collect compensation for their injuries .  federal courts are already overwhelmed by a large number of drug and immigration cases , and they do n't have the time or the resources to deal with complex issues of state law .  this bill has it all wrong .  instead of punishing individuals who pursue frivolous lawsuits , this bill will punish innocent people who have been wrongfully hurt .  this bill is a payoff to large companies and special interests .  it takes rights away from consumers in order to protect drug manufacturers , insurance companies , hmos and negligent doctors .  there is no accountability on their part .  it is not `` frivolous '' for an innocent person who has been harmed through no fault of their own to seek compensation for their injuries .  when a child is disabled or maimed by a preventable error , it is not frivolous to seek damages from the company responsible for the injury .  this is a bill that 's going to significantly harm small consumers who want to hold large companies accountable for defrauding them .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on s. 5 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia for providing some of that information .  it seems that our colleagues probably are so wrong on this bill they can not even talk about it .  they want to come down here and talk about all sorts of other things that are not involved in class action .  they are talking about protection .  well , i would like the american people to know and our colleagues to know we are talking about protection .  we are talking about protecting americans ' pockets books , because our constituents know somebody is going to pay , and if greedy lawyers are getting big settlements , they are going to be paying more at the cash register every single time they go buy something .  an entire industry has grown up over attorneys seeking cash in these class-action lawsuits .  our courts are to be designed for fairness , a forum of fairness and justice , but they have become a virtual atm for greedy lawyers when it comes to class-action lawsuits .  lawyers go file a class-action lawsuit and collect millions of dollars , just as the gentleman from georgia was saying ; and the clients , who they barely know , most times they have never even met most of these folks , those clients are receiving pennies .  mr. speaker , my colleague spoke saying this would not help the victims .  i would like people to know the class action fairness act does not restrict true victims from filing class-action lawsuits .  it will prevent attorneys from choosing which state to file in , because we know sometimes they choose where they think they can get the biggest monetary award .  we are putting the focus back on justice , back on justice in this bill .  in addition , the reform provides greater consumer protection by allowing our courts to scrutinize those settlements that provide victims with coupons while those attorneys are getting millions and millions and millions of dollars .  mr. speaker , this is an overdue reform .  we have worked tirelessly on this in the house , and i urge everyone to support it .  mr. speaker , i agree with this bill 's intent to prevent the legal system from being `` gamed '' by attorneys who lump thousands of speculative claims into a single class action lawsuit and then seek out a sympathetic state court .  any abusive or frivolous class action is a drain on the system and forces innocent defendants to settle cases rather than play judicial roulette with the risk of a huge unjustified settlement .  unfortunately , instead of narrowly focusing on such abuses , senate bill 5 completely reconfigures the judicial system , resulting in diminished corporate accountability and fundamental legal rights of individuals .  while this bill makes some improvements to limit frivolous lawsuits , it does so at a price that will make it harder for average americans to successfully pursue real claims against interests that violate their states ' consumer health , civil rights , and environmental protection laws .  this is an unnecessary tradeoff .  i voted for a democratic substitute motion which would have minimized some of these abuses .  sadly , it was defeated and , as a result , i voted against final passage .  i will continue to be open to changes that make our judicial system work better , but not at the expense of the people i represent .  it is essential that we hold accountable the forces that have so much impact on the lives of every american .  mr. speaker , the vote in this house we will take within the hour will leave only one more step , the president 's signature , in this first major attack on lawsuit abuse .  i oppose the substitute and support the bill .  i want to express my appreciation to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and his committee and all the members , in fact , who have been willing to take on this tough fight , but particularly to the chairman for working hard to find a way to get this bill on the floor and to the president this early in this congress .  frivolous lawsuits are clogging america 's judicial system , endangering america 's small businesses , jeopardizing jobs , and driving up prices for consumers .  the bill we are debating today will reduce these junk lawsuits through tougher sanctions and increased commonsense protections .  the past few years have witnessed an explosion of interstate class actions being filed in state courts , particularly in certain magnet jurisdictions .  these magnet courts are filled with class action abuses .  they routinely approve settlements in which the lawyers receive large fees and the class members receive virtually nothing .  the class action fairness act is a commonsense bipartisan plan that addresses this serious problem by allowing larger interstate class action cases , cases that truly do involve multiple states , to be filed in federal court .  in addition to unclogging certain overused courts , this bill ends the harassment of local businesses through forum shopping .  lawyers who now manipulate this system often do anything to stay out of federal court .  they sometimes name a local pharmacy or a local convenience store in a nationwide product liability suit simply because they believe that court , and that court often has created a reputation as the place to go to get unjust settlements .  sometimes they wait and amend their complaint and add millions of dollars of claims after the deadline for removal to federal court .  this bill stops this unfair practice as well .  this bill also establishes a much-needed class action rights bill .  several provisions are specifically designed to ensure that class members , not their attorneys , are the primary beneficiaries of the class action process .  six years ago on this floor we really began the process of attacking this system .  the stories go on and on and on , to the point that by the time we passed legislation like this in the last congress for the third congress straight , members were eager to just simply get a couple of minutes to talk about one of the classes where the people in the class get a dollar-off coupon , the people in the class get the smallest possible box of cheerios , the people in the class get a 31-cent check , or the people in the class even wind up having to pay the lawyers of the class additional money because there really was no money for the people in the class that was being determined .  this bill requires that judges carefully review settlements and limits attorneys fees when the value of the settlement received by the class members is minor in comparison or when there is a net loss settlement where the class members actually end up losing money .  this bill bans settlements that award some class members a large recovery simply because they live closer to the court that the lawyers shopped for to get that case in that judge 's court .  it allows federal courts to maximize the benefit of class action settlements by requiring that unclaimed settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  the class action fairness act is good for small business and good for consumers .  i urge a `` no '' vote on the substitute .  i urge my colleagues to support this important legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman and his committee for their hard work on this effort .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for yielding me time .  madam speaker , i am pleased to rise this morning in support of the bill before us .  in the two decades that i have been privileged to serve in the house , the class action measure that is before us today is the most modest litigation reform that has been debated , and it strikes in a narrow and appropriate way at an egregious abuse of justice .  the bill before us makes procedural changes only .  there are no restrictions on the substantive rights of plaintiffs .  there are no caps on damages .  there is no elimination on the rights of plaintiffs to recover .  the bill simply permits the removal to federal courts of class actions that are truly national in scope , with plaintiffs living across the nation and the large corporate defendant , even if the current diversity of citizenship rules are not strictly met .  this change is much needed .  cases that are truly national in scope are being filed as state class actions before certain favored judges who employ an almost `` anything goes '' approach that remedies virtually any controversy subject to certification as a class action .  once certification occurs , there is then a rush to settle the cases .  the lawyer who filed the case makes an offer that is hard for the corporate defendant to refuse .  he asks for large fees in the millions of dollars for himself and coupons for the plaintiff class members that he represents .  rather than go through years of expensive litigation , the defendant settles .  the judge who certified the class quickly approves the settlement .  the lawyer who filed the case gets rich .  the plaintiff class members get virtually nothing .  that is the problem that this bill is designed to address .  it permits the removal of these national cases to the federal court in the state in which the state class action has been filed .  in the federal court , the rights of plaintiffs will be more carefully observed .  any settlement involving non-cash compensation will be carefully reviewed to assure that it is fair .  under the bill , cases that are local in scope will remain in the state court where they are initially filed .  i want to commend the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  for the thoughtful leadership that he has provided in steering this measure to the point of passage today .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  has exhibited both foresight and patience and as chief sponsor of the bill through three congresses deserves tremendous credit for the success that we are now on the brink of achieving .  i also want to commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for the wise course that he has followed as chairman of the house committee on the judiciary in permitting the senate to act in advance of our action today .  i want to commend our former house colleague , senator tom carper , for the outstanding work he performed in negotiating changes to the measure which resulted in 72 members of the senate voting to approve this reform .  i hope the house will also lend its support to this reform .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  what about the amount-in-controversy component , the $ 5 million ?  under current law , some federal courts have determined the value for requests for injunctive relief by considering the value to each individual plaintiff .  since that value is usually less than $ 75 , 000 , these courts have kept such cases in state court .  this is sometimes known as the plaintiff 's viewpoint , defendant 's viewpoint problem .  would the chairman explain how the bill resolves this challenge ?  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me , and i will be pleased to provide two examples .  suppose that a california state court class action were filed against a california pharmaceutical drug company on behalf of a proposed class of 60 percent california residents and 40 percent nevada residents alleging harmful side effects attributed to a drug sold nationwide .  in such a case , it would make sense to leave the matter in federal court .  after all , the state laws that would apply in all of these cases would vary , depending on where the drug was prescribed and purchased .  as a result , allowing a single federal court to sort out such issues and handle the balance of the litigation would make sense both from added efficiency and a federalism standpoint .  now , suppose , in a second example , a checking account fee disclosure class action were filed in a nevada state court against a nevada bank located in a border city , and the class consisted of 65 percent nevada residents and 35 percent california residents who crossed the border in order to conduct transactions in the nevada bank .  in this hypothetical , it might make sense to allow that matter to proceed in state court .  it is likely that nevada banking law would apply to all of these claims , even those of the california residents , since all of the transactions occurred in the state of nevada .  there is also less likelihood that multiple actions will be filed around the country on the same subject so as to give rise to a coordinating federal multidistrict litigation proceeding .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  the principles that have just been enumerated apply to another provision that i would like to discuss , the mass action provision .  under this provision , defendants will be able to remove mass actions to federal court under the same circumstances in which they will be able to remove class actions .  however , a federal court would only exercise jurisdiction over these claims that meet the $ 75 , 000 minimum .  in addition , a mass action can not be removed to federal court if it falls under one of the following four categories : number one , if all of the claims arise out of an event or occurrence that happened in the state where the action was filed and that resulted in injuries only in that state or in contiguous states ; number two , if it is the defendants who seek to have the claims joined for trial ; number three , if the claims are asserted on behalf of the general public pursuant to a state statute authorizing such an action ; and , number four , if the claims have been consolidated or coordinated for pretrial purposes only .  i would appreciate the gentleman from wisconsin clarifying how the $ 75 , 000 amount in controversy minimum would apply to assessing whether federal jurisdiction exists over a mass action , and , most importantly , explaining the intent of the sponsors with regard to the first and third exceptions .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to commit .  i am , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , janet huggins died last september .  she was 39 years old .  she had a 9-year-old son .  she had no personal or family history of heart problems , but she suffered a fatal heart attack just a month after she began taking a new medicine for her early-onset arthritis .  that medicine she took was merck 's anti-inflammatory drug , vioxx .  cardiologist , dr .  eric topol , and other researchers at the cleveland clinic sounded the alarm in august of 2001 .  their article in the journal of the american medical association pointed to increased occurrence of heart problems in patients taking vioxx and similar cox-ii anti-inflammatory drugs .  dr .  topol even called merck 's ceo and research director to talk about his concerns .  his calls went unanswered .  his warnings went unheeded .  instead , merck continued to sell vioxx , continued to spend $ 100 million a year on direct-to-consumer advertising , encouraging more and more americans to buy vioxx .  that is what ms. huggins did .  she was buried the same day that merck finally took vioxx off the market .  her husband monty has filed suit against merck .  his suit will be captured , along with thousands of other vioxx suits , under the mass actions provisions of s. 5 .  this bill is designed to make it more difficult for monty huggins and others to pursue their claims that companies like merck will never be held accountable .  s. 5 will make it more expensive for him and much harder for him to travel for court proceedings .  it may even dead-end monty huggins ' claim entirely .  federal courts have repeatedly refused to certify multistate class actions because they found them too complex to choose one state law over the other .  so monty huggins may arrive in federal court only to find that is the end of the line .  the bitter irony here is that vioxx claims are not really class actions at all .  here is a good example of the sort of things settled by class action lawsuits .  this ipod portable music player is all the rage .  there are some people out there who thought the batteries on these things run out too quickly .  they have filed a class action lawsuit against the manufacturer .  if they win , everybody in the class probably gets a few bucks and the whole thing is done .  that is what class action lawsuits are about .  they do not generally involve personal injuries .  they do not generally involve huge losses .  there is a world of difference , mr. speaker , between a faulty battery in this , and the death of a 39-year-old wife and mother .  perhaps the worst aspect of this bill is that it treats these suits the same .  we should strip out the whole class action , the mass action provision , but that is not realistic in this political environment .  my motion to commit prevents harm so obvious it can not be ignored by specifically exempting vioxx lawsuits .  dr .  topol at the cleveland clinic , who i mentioned earlier wrote , `` neither of the two major forces in this 5-and-a-half year affair , neither merck nor the fda , fulfilled its responsibilities to the public. '' this motion to commit offers an opportunity for someone at last to act responsibly .  if we adopt this motion to commit , monty huggins will have a fighting chance for justice .  if we do not , the u.s. house of representatives will join the list of those who betrayed the public 's trust .  mr. speaker , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , under provisions of this bill , is it not the case that all future vioxx cases are prohibited ?  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , to understand the need for s. 5 , we need to understand the game the class action lawyers play here and how they go about abusing the court systems .  i call it class action monopoly .  here is how it works .  they start at go .  the first thing they do is come up with an idea for a lawsuit .  and then they find a named plaintiff .  it does not have to be someone who is actually injured in the process .  all the lawyer really needs is an idea for a lawsuit and potential defendants who have deep pockets .  next they find a person who is the named plaintiff .  that named plaintiff is a citizen of the same state as one of the defendants and that puts them in the state court , which is where they want to be .  sometimes they have to promise to pay off that named plaintiff at this point , but that is all part of the game .  next the lawyers level their allegations , both in court and in the media .  remember , they do not have to have proof for their allegations .  they just need a forum in which to make the allegations .  now the real fun begins after you have made the allegations .  they are in state court with the named plaintiffs and their allegations , and it is time to get out of rule 23 free .  rule 23 is the rule that would apply in federal courts that defines when a class action can be certified consistent with fundamental fairness and due process considerations .  but in this game , there is no fairness .  there is no due process .  so they easily convince their magnet state to certify that they have a class and at the same time they file copycat lawsuits in state courts all over the country .  these are the same class actions asserting the same claims on behalf of the same people .  these copycat lawsuits clog the state courts .  at this point in the game , the lawyers start making the money .  let us see where the money goes .  in the columbia house record case , the lawyers took home $ 5 million and the plaintiffs got a coupon for discounts on future purchases of records .  in the blockbuster case , the lawyers walked away with $ 9.25 million , and the plaintiffs again got a coupon for $ 1 off their next video rental , coupons that the defendant probably would have issued anyway .  in the bank of boston case , the lawyers settled the case and took home $ 8.5 million .  and the customers had money deducted from their mortgage accounts to pay off the lawyers .  so in the end , a state court approved these cases , and all of the consumers in the lawsuit lost money .  people may be wondering what happens to them in this game .  we already know that if one is a consumer , in the consumer class , they will be lucky if they get a dollar-off coupon .  if the business one works for gets sued in one of the class actions , their employer is going to take a major hit and maybe even lay them off .  it is that clear in some of these cases , the basic result is that the lawyers will get lots of money , but consumers will pay because health care and car insurance premiums will go through the roof .  and when the game comes to an end , they are left with no money and the lawyers are at `` go '' and they get to start the process all over again .  it is fundamentally important that we resolve this problem and help america move forward .  i urge support of s. 5 .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the class action fairness act because we can not act fast enough .  we have been trying to act to address the dire needs of our nation 's judicial system .  today , predatory lawyers take advantage of class action law by shopping for venues where they can find sympathetic judges and juries .  each time a lawyer goes venue shopping , it costs taxpayers and it costs our economy by bogging down job creators with frivolous and excessive litigation .  national review magazine has called my home state of west virginia one of the worst states because of its cruel legal climate .  data and statistics indicate that since 1978 , legal costs in west virginia have risen more than 10 times faster than the state economy as a whole .  as a result , our economy has not grown as fast as the rest of the nation , and the jobs that west virginians seek to support their families are not as readily available as they are in other parts of our country .  west virginia 's civil justice system has been ranked as one of the worst when it comes to the treatment of class actions .  as a result of west virginia 's relaxation and less vigorous application of procedural rules , courts are generally viewed by lawyers as more favorable and advantageous to plaintiffs , and accordingly west virginia has become a magnet of mass tort litigation .  what is very alarming is when a victim receives little or no compensation .  the class action fairness act aims to curb class settlements that provide significant fees to a lawyer with marginal benefits to victims .  the class action fairness act takes strong steps to ensure injured consumers recoup real awards from victorious verdicts , rather than settlements that involve coupons , which largely benefit the lawyers .  the class action fairness act creates important reforms that will reduce lawsuit abuse and protect individuals .  it is as simple as that .  i urge support for this legislation , and for the fair and balanced rule before us .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , with the consideration of this legislation , the majority begins their assault on our nation 's civil justice system .  today we will attempt to preempt state class actions .  next month we will take up a bankruptcy bill that massively tilts the playing field in favor of credit card companies and against ordinary consumers and workers alike .  on deck and pending are equally one-sided medical malpractice bills and asbestos bills that both cap damages and eliminate liability to protect some of the most egregious wrongdoers in america .  the majority 's assault on victims and consumers is unprecedented in its scope and stunning in its breadth .  collectively , these measures will close the courthouse doors on millions of americans harmed by intentional wrongdoing , negligence , and fraud .  and so , long after the 109th congress has forgotten , american consumers and workers will be paying the price for these special interest bills through needless injuries and uncompensated harm .  this legislation will remove class actions involving state law issues from state courts , the forum most convenient for victims of wrongdoing and with the judges most familiar with the substantive law , and this legislation will move it to the federal courts where the case will take far longer to resolve and is far less likely to be certified .  now , you do not need to take my word for it .  let us just ask big business itself .  the nation 's largest bank , citicorp admits `` the practical effect ( of the bill will ) be that many cases will never be heard .  federal judges facing overburdened dockets and ambiguities about applying state laws in a federal court , often refuse to grant standing to class action plaintiffs. '' forbes magazine writes , `` the legislation will ... ..  make it more difficult for plaintiffs to prevail , since ... ..  federal courts are ... ..  less open to considering ... ..  class action claims. '' passage of this legislation would be particularly devastating for civil rights cases and labor law cases .  as the lawyers committee for civil rights under the law explained , `` the consequences of the legislation for civil rights class actions ... ..  will be astounding and , in our view , disastrous .  redirecting state law class actions to the federal courts will choke federal court dockets and delay or foreclose the timely and effective determination of federal ( civil rights ) cases. '' since the november election we have heard a lot of talk about values , and that is fine ; but will someone during this discourse today tell me where the value is in denying senior citizens who suffered heart attacks because they took vioxx for their arthritis ?  where is the morality in preventing poor workers from joining together to obtain compensation when unscrupulous employers pay them slave-labor wages ?  where is the righteousness in telling victims of discrimination that they will have to wait years for a federal court to consider violations of their own state laws ?  if we have learned anything from the enron , tyco , firestone , and other legal debacles , it is that our citizens need more protection against wrongdoers in our society , not less .  and yet the class action bill before us takes us in precisely the opposite direction .  the house should reject this one-sided , anti-consumer and anti-civil rights legislation .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  is a dear friend of mine , and i merely want to take one observation that he made , that this is just a procedural process and that there is no substantive changes , but i say to him , if the legal system is rigged and the rules are stacked against you , you never have to get to the substance ; you do not even get your day in court .  that is the problem with this bill .  it is a procedural process that prevents people from bringing actions in state courts , and we are sending it to the federal courts when both the federal judiciary has spoken against this measure and the state judges have spoken against this measure as well .  i think that that should be a very instructive criticism against this bill .  the proposal before us is opposed by both state and federal judiciaries .  it is opposed by the national council of state legislatures ; consumers and public interest groups , including public citizen , the consumers federation of america , the consumers union , the united states pirg ; a coalition of environmental advocates ; health advocates , including the campaign for tobacco free kids ; civil rights groups such as the alliance for justice , the leadership conference on civil rights , the national association for the advancement of colored people , and the lawyers ' committee for civil rights and labor such as the american federation of labor-congress of industrial organizations , afl-cio .  this legislation is also opposed by many of the nation 's editorial boards in the newspaper business .  a new york times editorial board just this weekend wrote this about the measure that is before the house today : `` instead of narrowly focusing on real abuses of the system , the measure reconfigures the civil justice system to achieve a significant rollback of corporate accountability and people 's rights .  the main impact of the bill , which has the sort of propagandistic title normally assigned to such laws , the class action fairness act , will be to funnel nearly all major class action lawsuits out of state courts and into already overburdened federal courts .  that will inevitably make it harder for americans to pursue legitimate claims successfully against companies that violate state consumer , health , civil rights and environmental protection laws. '' madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to yield 4 minutes to my good friend , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  from the committee on energy and commerce .  he has worked with us on many of these issues .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  i would like to respond to my good friend , the gentleman from virginia ( mr. moran )  .  first of all , i think the naacp and the civil rights groups will be eager to find out that his wisdom is superior to their experience in the civil rights movement .  what the gentleman was suggesting may have been correct a number of years ago , but i would point out to the gentleman that the federal courts more recently have not been as desirable a forum for civil rights activities .  the bank of boston case , that was 10 years ago and an anomaly .  there are not other examples of class actions where class members lost money .  no other court has made the same mistake .  i would urge that neither the gentleman nor any of us rewrite class action rules because of one mistake .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would like to briefly describe why this substitute is the superior piece of legislation before us today .  the substitute is much better for the following reasons : civil rights carve-out .  the substitute would carve out state civil rights claims in order to make sure that civil rights plaintiffs , especially those seeking immediate injunctive relief , can have their grievances addressed in a timely manner .  believe me , this is an issue of great moment to those of us who are still prosecuting for a fair day in our nation and have civil rights laws to back us up , but we now are pleading to keep the proper forums .  for example , every state in the union has passed a law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability .  the language does not affect the federal jurisdiction over federal claims .  the second consideration for this is the wage-and-hour carve-out .  wage-and-hour class actions are often brought in state courts because state wage-and-hour remedies are often , i am sorry to say , more complete than the federal wage-and-hour statute ; and we have examples of that .  the third reason : we exclude non-class action cases involving physical injuries .  the measure before us applies not only to class actions , but also to mass torts .  the democratic substitute removes the mass tort language .  and then , of course , the attorney general carve-out which clarifies cases brought by state attorneys general are excluded from the provisions of the class action bill and would not be forced into federal court .  these are the major reasons why we encourage a supportive vote for the substitute to the measure that is being debated today .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  once again , mr. speaker , we have before us a bill that would sweep aside generations of state laws that protect consumers .  citizens will be denied their basic right to use their own state courts to file class action lawsuits against companies -- even if there are clear violations of state labor laws or state civil rights laws .  this bill comes after a lobbying campaign costing business interests tens of millions of dollars .  well , that was money well spent .  with this sweeping legislation , corporations will have free reign to avoid responsibility for the wrongs they commit .  it is just shameful that the victims of corporate misconduct do not have the same level of influence here in the halls of congress .  let 's not forget the people who died as a result of defective tires manufactured by firestone .  what about countless individuals who died as a result of the tobacco industry 's failure to disclose the risks of cigarettes ?  well , if it is any indication of this bill 's intent -- tobacco is already celebrating this week .  stocks are up and the industry is glowing .  let me quote their take on this bill , `` the practical effect of the change could be that many cases will never be heard given how overburdened federal judges are. '' plainly that is the goal of the bill .  the goal is to ensure that legitimate plaintiffs are denied any recovery at all .  and that whatever recovery they do receive is delayed as long as possible .  i have spent decades in courtrooms and i can tell my colleagues -- from my own experience -- that justice delayed is justice denied .  the doors to the courthouse will be locked shut .  and this republican leadership is handing the key to corporate america .  with complete disregard for precedent-setting individual and class action litigation , the republican leadership is determined to destroy america 's civil justice system , eliminating protections for the poor and powerless .  this bill is a disgrace to the historic victories in courts across the country -- to expand consumer rights , protect our environment , and strengthen workers ' rights .  and there has been complete disregard for the legislative process in the house .  while we have had hearings and markups on class action legislation in the past , this bill is quite complex and very different than previous versions .  the fact that the other chamber has already approved this matter in no way justifies a `` rush to judgment '' in the house , when so many important rights are at stake .  class actions have addressed the looting of company after company by corporate insiders , whose brazen misconduct and self-dealing defrauded creditors and investors of billions of dollars , and stripped employees and retirees of their livelihood and life savings .  yet if this bill becomes law , the victims of those practices will face new obstacles in their efforts to call those executives to task .  this bill is not about protecting plaintiffs .  it 's not about protecting the public .  it 's about protecting large corporations whose conduct has been egregious .  it 's about protecting the powerful at the expense of the powerless .  and to prevent people from banding together as a class to challenge that power in the only way they can .  we must also see this bill in its proper context .  it is part of an ambitious and multi-pronged campaign by major corporations to evade their obligations to society .  under the guise of `` deregulation '' we 're watching the wholesale dismantling of health and safety standards , environmental protections , and longstanding limits on concentration of ownership within the media and other key industries .  today 's bill completes this picture .  it takes aim at the civil justice system that exists to correct the wrongs that the government can not or will not address .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this blatant effort to muzzle the courts .  this bill is but the latest in a series of assaults by those on the other side attacking the ability of individuals to seek relief from the courts .  and it is also but the latest in a series of assaults on states ' rights to provide legal remedies for harm suffered by their citizens .  we can not allow them to do it , mr. speaker .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no . '' mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 96 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , in response to some of the comments that were made by the gentleman from massachusetts , i want to share with my colleagues some facts .  the class action fairness act contains several provisions specifically designed to ensure that class members , not their attorneys , class members , not their attorneys , are the primary beneficiaries of the class-action process .  for example , the act , number one , requires that judges carefully review all coupon settlements and limit attorney 's fees paid in such settlements to the value actually received by the class members .  second , it requires careful scrutiny of `` net loss '' settlements in which the class members end up losing money .  thirdly , it bans settlements that award some class members a larger recovery just because they live closer to the court .  lastly , it allows federal courts to maximize the benefits of class-action settlements by requiring that unclaimed coupons or settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  in addition , the bill would require that notice of proposed settlements be provided to appropriate state and federal officials , such as state attorneys general .  let me also address one other issue raised , and i think this is very important .  this myth is being circulated that the class action fairness act would move all or virtually all class actions to federal courts , overwhelming federal judges and denying state courts the ability to resolve local disputes .  well , a recent study examined class actions in the state courts of connecticut , delaware , maine , massachusetts , new york and rhode island , to determine what effect the bill would have on the class actions filed in those respective states .  here is what they found in regard to the state of massachusetts .  sixty-one percent , 30 out of 49 of the reported class actions , would have presumedly remained in state court .  at least 10 of the 19 massachusetts cases that would be affected by this bill , the class action fairness act , involved nationwide classes , cases primarily involving citizens living in other states .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in response to the gentlewoman from texas , the committee on rules has jurisdiction , and anybody that knows the history of this body knows and understands that the committee on rules certainly has jurisdiction .  let me just give a little history for my colleagues and particularly for the gentlewoman from texas in regard to this bill .  again , in the 105th congress , senate bill 2083 , the class action fairness act , senate held hearing , reported by subcommittee .  house resolution 3789 , class action jurisdiction act of 1998 , committee hearing and markup held , reported from the house committee on the judiciary , 17 to 12 .  mr. speaker , in the 106th congress , h.r. 1875 , interstate class action jurisdiction act of 1999 .  committee hearing and markup held , passed floor 222 to 207 .  in the 107th congress , h.r. 2341 , class action fairness act of 2001 .  committee hearing and markup held ; passed floor , 233 to 190 .  in the 108th congress , h.r. 1115 , class action fairness act of 2003 , committee hearing and markup held , passed floor , 253 to 170 .  no hearings ?  indeed .  mr. speaker , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern )  presented that case ; and i want to present the real crux of this problem , and let me read a suit , shields , et al v. bridgestone/firestone , incorporated in texas , a suit in texas .  this suit involves customers who had firestone tires that were among those that the national highway traffic safety administration investigated or recalled but who did not suffer any personal injury or property damage .  after a federal appeals court rejected class certification , plaintiffs ' counsel and firestone negotiated a settlement which has now been approved by a texas state court .  under the settlement , the company has agreed to redesign certain tires , a move that was already underway irrespective of the suit , and to develop a 3-year consumer education and awareness campaign , but the members of the class received nothing .  the lawyers , they got $ 19 million .  madam speaker , i thank the chairman very much for yielding .  madam speaker , the general principles behind s. 5 and many of the provisions in the legislation are similar to those in h.r. 1115 , which the house passed in 2003 , and s. 274 , which was voted out of committee in the senate in 2003 but did not ultimately pass .  to the extent these provisions are the same , the house committee on the judiciary 's report on h.r. 1115 and the senate committee on the judiciary 's report on s. 274 reflect the intent and understanding of the committee and the sponsors as to the import of these provisions .  however , there are several new provisions in s. 5 regarding federal jurisdiction over class actions that were not included in prior versions of the legislation .  i would like to ask my colleague , the chairman of the committee on the judiciary , to provide an overview of the jurisdictional provisions in the legislation , and i would like to discuss the various exceptions included in the legislation and the intent of the sponsors with regard to these exceptions .  madam speaker , i would also like to discuss the home state exception in the legislation .  new subsections 1332 ( d ) ( 3 ) and ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) address the jurisdictional principles that will apply to class actions filed against the defendant in its home state , dividing such cases into three categories .  first , for cases in which two-thirds or more of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are citizens of the state in which the suit was filed , section 1332 ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) states that federal jurisdiction will not be extended by s. 5 .  such cases will remain in state courts .  second , cases in which more than two-thirds of the members of the plaintiff class are not citizens of the state in which the action was filed will be subject to federal jurisdiction .  federal courts should be able to hear such lawsuits because they have a predominantly interstate component .  they affect people in many jurisdictions , and the laws of many states will be at issue .  finally , there is a middle category of class actions in which more than one-third , but fewer than two-thirds , of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are all citizens of the state in which the action was filed .  in such cases , the numbers alone may not always confirm that the litigation is more fairly characterized as predominantly interstate in character .  new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 3 ) , therefore , gives federal courts discretion in the interests of justice to decline to exercise jurisdiction over such cases based on the consideration of five factors .  madam speaker , i would ask the chairman to explain these factors .  i thank the chairman for yielding to me .  i think those examples really reflect the intent of the legislation .  madam speaker , the legislation also includes a local controversy exception which is intended to ensure that truly local class actions can remain in state court under the legislation .  under this provision , federal courts are instructed not to exercise jurisdiction over cases that meet all of the following four criteria : first , more than two-thirds of the class members must be the citizens of the state where the suit is brought ; second , there must be at least one in-state defendant from whom significant relief is sought by members of the class and whose conduct forms a significant basis of plaintiffs ' claims ; third , the principal injuries resulting from the alleged conduct or related conduct of each defendant must have occurred in the state where the action was originally filed ; and , fourth , no other class action has been filed during the preceding 3 years asserting the same or similar factual allegations against any of the defendants .  madam speaker , i would ask that the chairman elaborate on these criteria .  i thank the chairman for yielding once again .  madam speaker , in this regard i think it is important to note that the exceptions in this legislation are just that , exceptions , and they should not be interpreted in ways that turn them into loopholes .  for example , the legislation excludes actions against states .  obviously , this does not mean that plaintiffs can simply name a state in every consumer class action and stay out of federal court .  to the contrary , federal courts should proceed cautiously before declining federal jurisdiction under the subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 5 ) ( a ) `` state action '' case exception , and do so only when it is clear that the primary defendants are indeed states , state officials , or other governmental entities against whom the court may be foreclosed from ordering relief .  the sponsors intend that primary defendants be intended to reach those defendants who are the real targets of the lawsuit , i.e .  the defendants who would be expected to incur most of the loss if liability is found .  thus , the term `` primary defendant '' should include any person who has substantial exposure to significant portions of the proposed class in the action , particularly any defendant that is allegedly liable to the vast majority of the members of the proposed classes , as opposed to simply a few individual class members .  it is the sponsors ' intention with regard to each of these exceptions that the party opposing federal jurisdiction shall have the burden of demonstrating the applicability of an exemption .  thus , if a plaintiff seeks to have a class action remanded on the ground that the primary defendants and two-thirds or more of the class members are citizens of the home state , that plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating that these criteria are met .  similarly , if a plaintiff seeks to have a purported class action remanded because a primary defendant is a state , that plaintiff should have the burden of demonstrating that the exception should apply .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  finally , mr. speaker , some critics have complained that the legislation removal provisions will result in delay .  can the gentleman explain why that is simply not the case ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his leadership in moving this legislation forward and in working with the senate to accomplish that as well .  i hope this colloquy will provide guidance on the very important jurisdictional provisions in s. 5 and the sponsor 's intent .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time and for his leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor and for working with the senate to achieve the compromise that we need .  the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , the minority leader , called this an extreme republican measure .  apparently , she has not spoken to her own fellow san franciscan and senior senator from her state , dianne feinstein , who negotiated the compromise that has brought this legislation to the floor of the house , or to senator chuck schumer , also a member of the committee on the judiciary on the democratic side in the senate , or 16 other democratic senators who voted for this legislation .  she also apparently has not spoken to members of her own democratic caucus , many of whom have voted for this legislation in each of the last three congresses that have passed the house of representatives and many more of whom will vote for the legislation today .  a number of the folks who have spoken on the other side of the aisle criticizing the legislation have cited total inaccuracies about what the legislation will do .  the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  would not yield to me , but he said that the amerada hess case in new hampshire , with gasoline leaking into groundwater , would not be heard in the state court ; but if you live in new hampshire and you have gasoline leaking in your groundwater and virtually all of the plaintiffs are new hampshire residents , the case , under this bill , would be heard in the state courts .  some have mentioned the vioxx case against merck would be affected by this , and they have argued that senate 5 should be rejected because it will hurt consumers bringing vioxx cases against merck .  the truth , however , is that this legislation will have absolutely no effect on vioxx suits .  here is why : the majority of personal injury cases brought against merck are individual cases that would not be affected by the bill in any manner whatsoever .  these include more than 400 personal injury cases that are part of a coordinated proceeding in new jersey state court .  none of these cases will be affected by the bill because they are neither class actions nor mass actions .  now , what kind of cases would be affected by this legislation ?  well , let me show my colleagues how a select number of class action trial lawyers play the class action wheel of fortune .  how about the kay bee toys case where the lawyers got $ 1 million in attorneys fees and the consumers got 30 percent off selected products of an advertised sale at kay bee toys for one week .  or the poland spring water case where the lawyers got $ 1.35 million in the wheel of fortune and the consumers got coupons to buy more of the water that the lawyers were alleging was defective .  how about the ameritech case .  the price goes up , $ 16 million for those lawyers ; the consumers , $ 5 phone cards .  how about the premier cruise line case .  the lawyers got nearly $ 900 , 000 .  the consumers got $ 30 to $ 40 off of their next thousand dollar cruise , with a coupon to buy more of the product the lawyers were alleging was defective .  or the computer monitor litigation , $ 6 million in attorneys fees in a case alleging that the size of the computer screen was slightly off , and therefore , they were entitled to something .  what did the consumers get ?  a $ 13 rebate to purchase their next purchase .  how about the register.com case , $ 642 , 500 to the lawyers .  the consumers , $ 5-off coupons .  my favorite case , the case against chase manhattan bank , the lawyers got $ 4 million in attorneys fees , but the plaintiffs that allegedly the opponents of this bill are protecting , they got 33 cents .  here is one of the actual checks .  the catch was that at the time , to accept this 33-cent magnanimous check , they had to use a 34-cent postage stamp to send in the acceptance to get their 33-cent fee .  how about the case that president bush cited last week when he highlighted problems with this of the woman who had a defective television set against thompson electronics , found she had been made a member of a class action seeking redress of her grievances and many others against thompson electronics .  what did the lawyers get ?  $ 22 million in attorneys fees .  what did she get ?  a coupon for $ 25 to $ 50 off her next purchase of exactly what she did not want , another thompson electronics television set .  now , the gentlewoman from california , the minority leader , also cited the washington post .  let me tell my colleagues , the washington post has repeatedly endorsed this legislation , along with over a hundred other major newspapers , the washington post , the wall street journal , the financial times , christian science monitor , on and on the list goes .  and here is what the washington post said , and that is why we need to pass this legislation today .  the clients get token payments while the lawyers get enormous fees .  this is not justice .  it is an extortion racket that only congress can fix .  i urge my colleagues to pass the bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin for yielding me this time , and i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. weiner )  for raising the points on those cases on the class action wheel of fortune because he makes a good point .  in not one of those cases was there any wrongdoing found on the part of any of those defendants because all of those were settlements .  they were extortionate settlements because they are in the jurisdiction of a court where they know they are facing a hanging judge and a hanging jury .  the gentleman also raised another good point , and we should not leave plaintiffs in the situation where they get a 33-cent check or a coupon for a box of cheerios , like in another case , and that is what this bill does .  it requires extra-special scrutiny for coupon settlement cases so the courts will no longer let the manufacturers ' attorneys and the defendants ' attorneys come in with a settlement that simply gets out of the case , that gives the plaintiffs ' attorney a huge sum of money and everyone else walks away and the plaintiffs get left holding the bag .  mr. speaker , the gentleman ought to talk to his colleague , the senior senator from new york , the predecessor of his seat , who supported this legislation .  in addition , when the gentleman talks about abuse of plaintiffs in these cases , take into consideration the nationwide class action lawsuit filed in alabama against the bank of boston , headquartered in massachusetts , over mortgage escrow accounts .  the class members won the case but actually lost money .  amazing .  under the settlement agreement , the 700 , 000 class members received small payments of just a couple of dollars or no money at all .  about a year later , they found out that anywhere from $ 90 to $ 140 had been deducted from their escrow accounts .  for what ?  to pay their lawyers ' legal fees , of what ?  $ 8.5 million .  and when some of those class members , some of those beleaguered plaintiffs , that i am glad the gentleman from new york is standing up for , sued their class action lawyers for malpractice , the lawyers countersued them for $ 25 million saying that their former clients were trying to harass them .  this is an extortionate practice .  a small cartel of class action lawyers around the country are abusing the system and we need to change it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to commit .  mr. speaker , first let me thank chairman sensenbrenner for his leadership in bringing us to this historic point .  he and i have been working on this for over 6 years .  it has passed the house of representatives three times before .  due to his good work , it has now passed the senate and we have the opportunity to send it to the president .  he is waiting to sign it and we should n't waste any more time .  now the truth about class action fairness and vioxx .  critics have been arguing in the press that s. 5 should be rejected because it will hurt consumers bringing vioxx cases against merck .  the truth is , however , that this legislation will have absolutely no effect on vioxx suits , and here is why .  the majority of personal injury cases brought against merck are individual cases that would not be affected by the bill in any manner whatsoever .  these include more than 400 personal injury cases that are part of a coordinated proceeding in new jersey state court .  none of these cases will be affected by the bill because they are neither class actions nor mass actions .  merck has been named in more than 75 statewide and nationwide class actions involving vioxx , but only a small percentage are personal injury class actions .  to the extent these cases do involve personal injury , most were already brought in or removed to federal court because each potential class member 's claims exceeds $ 75 , 000 .  thus , these cases are removable to federal court under the old rules .  there are a few cases which plaintiffs have joined together in mass action-type cases against merck .  however , not a single vioxx case has been brought against merck in state court by more than 100 plaintiffs , one of the requirements for removal to federal court under the class action legislation .  thus , there is no reason to believe that the mass action provision would affect any vioxx-related cases whatsoever .  most of the class actions have been brought against merck .  since the legislation is not retroactive , it would absolutely have no effect on the 75 class actions already filed against merck in the wake of the vioxx withdrawal .  mr. speaker , given the large number of suits already filed and the fact that every former vioxx taker in america is already a proposed class member in numerous class actions , it is unlikely there will be many more class actions after the legislation is enacted .  it is bad legislation to have something pass that covers all class actions in the country for all time and name one specific product or one specific company in the legislation .  it is irrelevant anyway .  now , let me tell you the kinds of cases that are affected by this legislation .  take a look at the `` class action wheel of fortune '' on this chart .  it will tell you what we are doing here today .  you have got the case against ameritech .  ameritech , the attorneys for the plaintiffs got $ 16 million in attorneys fees .  what did the plaintiffs they represent get ?  five-dollar phone cards .  the premier cruise line case , the lawyers got almost $ 1 million ; the consumers got a $ 30- to $ 40-off coupon for their next cruise .  the computer monitor litigation case , the lawyers , $ 6 million in fees ; the consumers , a $ 13 rebate against your next future purchase of the alleged defective product .  register.com , $ 650 , 000 for the lawyers ; $ 5 for the consumers .  kb toys , $ 1 million for the lawyers ; 30 percent off your selected product in a unadvertised 1-week sale at kb toys .  poland spring water , $ 1.35 million for the lawyers ; a coupon for more of the allegedly defective water for the consumers .  my favorite case , however , is this one , the chase manhattan bank case , where the lawyers got $ 4 million in attorneys fees ; the plaintiffs , a check , we have got one right here , for 33 cents .  but there was a catch , because if you wanted to accept the 33 cents , you had to use a 34-cent postage stamp to send in your acceptance notice .  how is that for a bargain for you ?  and how about the $ 22 million case that president bush cited last week against thompson electronics ?  the lawyers got $ 22 million in attorneys fees ; the plaintiffs , one of whom was there , got a $ 25- to $ 50-off coupon to buy more of what ?  the very television set that she was complaining was defective in the first place .  it is a racket , it is extortionate .  the people of the country know it .  when they are asked the question , who benefits from our class action industry today , 47 percent say it is the plaintiffs ' lawyers ; 20 percent say it is the lawyers for the companies ; 67 percent of our public recognizes it is the lawyers who benefit from this system .  it is time we change it .  this bill does just that .  it protects american consumers and makes sure that they get justice by examining these ridiculous coupon settlements .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support this legislation , defeat the motion to commit , and send the bill to the president , and starting very soon , we will have justice for american consumers .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank the gentleman for the opportunity to speak on this bill today .  he has been leading a very important discussion and one that i am very pleased has finally come to fruition .  mr. speaker , there has been a lot of discussion today about class actions and what they do to the economy ; class actions , what they have done to law , because state courts are making national law .  but i think the most important point about a class action is that a class action 's purpose is to award the plaintiffs who have been injured .  the intent of these suits is to allow large groups who were similarly harmed by something to recover damages .  unfortunately , it is the attorneys who have been recovering more money .  the injured plaintiffs in many cases are recovering basically nothing .  first , they are denied real relief , and then the attorneys pocket huge amounts of money .  examples , bank of boston case , the lawyers got 8.5 million .  the plaintiffs actually lost money .  in the blockbuster case , the lawyers , 9.25 million .  the plaintiffs got $ 1 off their next movie .  the coca-cola case , the lawyers got 1.5 million ; the plaintiffs , a 50-cent coupon .  obviously , these lawsuits are not helping their intended beneficiaries .  this act will create a consumer class action bill of rights .  it will protect consumers from the egregious abuses of the class action practice today .  the plan will require the judges carefully review the settlement and limit the attorneys fees when the value of the settlement received by those class members is minor in comparison or when there is a net loss in the settlement , such as this example where the class members could end up losing money .  it also will ban settlements that award some class members a large recovery because they live closer to the court .  it will also allow federal courts to maximize the benefit of class action settlements by requiring that unclaimed settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  mr. speaker , it is just obvious to me that this is a long-overdue bill .  i encourage my colleagues to support it .  i encourage my colleagues to ensure that the plaintiffs actually receive their due in these cases .  mr. speaker , i 'm pleased join my colleagues here today who support taking a historic first step to breaking one of the main shackles holding back our economy and america 's workforce -- lawsuit abuse .  for the last decade , the republican congress has worked to end out of control lawsuits .  today is the day we will pass common-sense legislation and put an end to class action lawsuit abuse .  i particularly want to praise the efforts of house judiciary chairman jim sensenbrenner for his relentless work .  without his stewardship , i do n't think th achievement would have become a reality .  i come from illinois -- the land of lincoln -- where downstate madison county has the dubious distinction as a personal injury lawyer 's paradise .  no , there are not palm trees or sandy beaches there .  instead , madison county , illinois , is home to very warm courtrooms where frivolous lawsuits are filed virtually everyday .  why 's madison county ?  the answer : `` venue shopping. '' cagey trial lawyers have figured out there 's a pretty good likelihood their case -- no matter what its merit -- will literally get its day in court because of favorable judges .  to use a sports analogy , thanks to willing judges , personal injury lawyers get to play on their `` home court '' each and every time they file a frivolous lawsuit there .  for instance , a legendary class action case from madison county illustrates what 's wrong with the current legal system .  in 2000 , cable tv customers who filed suit over their cable operator 's late fee policy won their case , but received nothing ... ..  not a dime , not a nickel , not a lincoln penny .  instead , their $ 5.6 million settlement went directly into the pockets of their attorneys .  how is that justice ?  how does that help victims ?  the american people deserve better .  our working families demand better .  today 's action takes a step in the right direction to end the so-called tort tax .  the tort tax makes consumers pay more for the goods and services they use .  the tort tax adds to the cost of everything we buy because businesses and manufacturers have to cover themselves and their employees -- just in case they get sued by a greedy personal injury lawyer .  at last estimate , this outrageous tort tax cost the nation 's economy $ 246 billion a year , and by 2006 , it will cost the average american nearly $ 1 , 000 more each year on their purchases because of defensive business practices .  in closing , as a matter of principle , damage awards should go to the victim , not the lawyers .  lawsuits should not be `` strike it rich '' schemes for lawyers .  there has to be some limit to what lawyers can take from their clients .  otherwise , cagey attorneys end up with the lion 's share of the settlement and the victims end up with little more than scraps .  mr. speaker , i heard an earlier speaker refer to class actions as a game .  try telling that to the 9-year-old son of janet huggins , a 39-year-old healthy tennessee mother who took vioxx and died in september 2004 .  tell her family that the effort to protect her family is a game .  this is not a game .  this is flesh and blood , the ability to protect your family when something happens to you that you did not have anything to do with .  this bill is the vioxx protection bill .  it is the wal-mart protection bill .  it is the tyco protection bill .  it is the enron protection bill .  anyone in the state of washington who saw what enron did to us , stealing $ 1 billion , should not be voting for this bill , because this bill in many ways is the just say no bill to people who are injured by rapacious wrongdoers .  in three ways it says `` just say no '' to consumers who were hurt by enron , because in the federal courts , if you happen to be in a plaintiff 's group of multiple states and the laws are a little different in the states , do you know what the federal courts do ?  they throw out the class action .  do you want to know why the chamber of commerce is spending $ 1 billion to lobby on what seems to be a procedural issue ?  because they throw out class actions where there is any difference in states , meaning you will not be able to have a class action anywhere , anywhere , federal or state .  why is this so important ?  i liken this to right now you have two arms to protect americans , the state judicial system and the federal judicial system .  this reduces by half the resources that are available to americans to get redress when enron steals from them or when vioxx kills them .  on 9/11 , did we respond to september 11 by taking out city police officers and only having the fbi ?  on 9/11 , did we respond by not having local fire departments and only having the coast guard or army fire department ?  no .  we recognized that in our system of federalism , americans deserve the full protection , not just half the protection .  this cuts the available judicial resources in half .  why is that important ?  the second reason it just says no to injured americans is the federal courts can not handle these class actions .  they do not have enough courts and judges .  you go down and ask how long you will wait today to get into a federal court .  then add about 4 or 5 years after this bill if this bill were to come into effect .  you just say no because it takes the keys away from the courthouse .  the third reason it just says no to good american citizens is it takes from the state attorneys general their ability to protect people .  that is why the states attorneys general , republican and democrat alike , are adamantly opposed to this bill , because this bill takes cops off the beat ; attorneys generals whose job it is to protect us from what roosevelt called the `` malefactors of great wealth '' are off the beat .  mr. speaker , we should reject this bill .  mr. speaker , it is interesting to hear the distinguished gentleman from georgia mention the committee on rules , and i respect the power of the committee on rules .  the committee on rules is not a jurisdictional committee .  this bill did not go through the committee process on the senate side or on the house side .  i might also say when we talk about coupons and the amount of dollars that lawyers may receive , might i remind the body that we are talking about thousands upon thousands of plaintiffs in a class action who would never have their grievances addressed and the corporate culprit would have never been punished had it not been for this class action .  so to manipulate it to suggest that it is abused is manipulation , just that .  this did not go through the committee process .  we are avoiding the committee process .  therefore , we are stamping on democracy and this rule and this bill should be voted down enthusiastically .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for the time that he has spent on this legislation .  i think we have seen this come across our desks for a number of sessions , and we have tried to work in a bipartisan manner in order to find a way to respond to some of the larger class actions that are now proceeding before us in the courts .  mr. speaker , let me start out by trying to address some of the large dilemmas that have seemingly been the underpinnings of this overhaul of a system that is not broken .  i know some two or three sessions ago we were in the midst of conversations about the asbestos lawsuits .  frankly , i believe that with a reasonable dialogue and exchange , we were nearing some sort of resolution that would have allowed that heinous series of events over the years , the asbestos poisoning for many , many workers , to be brought to a conclusion .  for some reason , those favoring class action reform want to paint with a broad brush the victims , those who have been victimized by asbestos poisoning .  even today as we are looking to reconstruct some of the older buildings in my community , we are finding an asbestos problem .  but because of the notice that was given through these class action lawsuits , we now have companies who are protecting workers who are going in trying to clean out asbestos .  we would not have had that had we had not had this asbestos crisis .  it is the same thing with tobacco .  although there has been some humor about `` do n't you know when to stop smoking , '' we know that for years and years , years and years , there was no labeling of cigarettes to suggest that they in fact caused cancer .  so the tobacco lawsuits are not in fact frivolous .  they may be high in return , but they are not frivolous .  this class action lawsuit legislation , i believe , is excessive and overreaching .  what it simply wants to do is burden federal courts without giving them any resources .  there is nothing in this legislation that increases the funding of our federal courts .  take the southern district , for example .  we are so overburdened with criminal cases , immigration cases , smuggling cases , drug cases , there is absolutely no room to orderly now prosecute or allow to proceed class action lawsuits from people who have been damaged enormously .  this legislation wants to federalize mass torts , that is thousands and thousands of people , when they realize that the compromise , for example , that was offered in the senate , the feinstein compromise , does not do anything , because what it says is you can go into state court if you can find one of the defendants of a large corporation in your state .  if you happen to be a small state or maybe some state that is not the headquarters of corporate entities , like on the east coast , for example , you will find no defendant , so you will be languishing year after year after year trying to get into federal court .  what it also does is minimizes the opportunity of those who can secure their local lawyer to get them into a state court and burdens them with the responsibility of finding some high-priced counsel that they can not afford to try to understand federal procedure law to get into the federal court .  it closes the door to the least empowered : the poor , the working class and the middle class .  what we find as well is that this legislation is much broader than is needed .  why close the door to those who are injured by the failings of products ?  why close the doors to those who are injured by the mass and unfortunate activities of a company like enron in my congressional district , penalizing thousands of workers all over america unfairly and giving them no relief , giving no relief to the pensioners who lost all of their dollars ?  mr. speaker , what we have here is a response to no crisis , a response to no problem .  frankly , i believe that if we reasonably look at this legislation , we will find that all it does is it zippers the courthouse door .  to my good friend who mentioned that civil rights can take place wherever is necessary , let me just share with you that civil rights is not a popular cause ; and , therefore , to then add it to get in line now with thousands of other cases , you can be assured that there will be a crisis .  mr. speaker , let me simply say i rise to support the substitute that has the civil rights carve-out , the wage-and-hour carve-out .  it excludes non-action cases involving physical injuries , an attorney general carve-out , the anti-secrecy language ; and in particular it does not allow companies to go offshore to avoid class action lawsuits .  mr. speaker , let me simply say this is a bill on the floor with no problem .  but i can tell you , america , you are going to have a big problem once this bill is passed , and i am saddened by the fact that time after time we come to this floor and we close out the working people , we close out the middle-class , and we close out those who need relief .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of both the rule and the underlying class-action reform legislation .  mr. speaker , the bottom line is that class-action reform is badly needed .  currently , certain crafty lawyers are able to game the system by filing large , nationwide class-action suits in certain preferred state courts such as madison county , illinois , where judges are quick to certify classes and quick to approve settlements that give millions of dollars to attorneys and only worthless coupons to their clients .  looking at this chart , for example , we can see the history of madison county , illinois , which has been called the number one judicial hellhole in the united states .  there were 77 class-action filings in 2002 , and 106 class-action lawsuits filed in 2003 .  now , the movie bridges of madison county was a love story .  `` the judges of madison county '' would be a horror flick .  unfortunately , all too often , it is the lawyers who drive these class-action suits and not the individuals who allegedly have been injured .  for example , in a suit against blockbuster over late fees , the attorneys received $ 9.25 million ; their clients got a $ 1 off coupon for their next video rental .  similarly , in a lawsuit against the company that makes cheerios , the attorneys received $ 2 million for themselves , while their clients received a coupon for a free box of cheerios .  in a nutshell , these out-of-control class-action lawsuits are killing jobs , they are hurting small business people who can not afford to defend themselves , and they are hurting consumers who have to pay a higher price for goods and services .  fortunately , this legislation provides much-needed reform in 2 key areas .  first , it eliminates much of the forum shopping by requiring that most of the nationwide class-action suits be filed in federal court .  second , it cracks down on these coupon-based class-action settlements by requiring that attorney fee awards be based on either the value of the coupons actually redeemed , or by the hours actually billed by the attorney prosecuting the case .  mr. speaker , this legislation will and should comfortably pass the house of representatives .  last week , this exact bill received 72 votes in the u.s. senate , and last year we passed a similar bill with 253 votes .  i urge my colleagues to vote yes on the bill and vote yes on the rule .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the bottom line is that class action reform is badly needed .  currently , crafty lawyers are able to game the system by filing large , nationwide class action suits in certain preferred state courts such as madison county , illinois , where judges are quick to certify classes and quick to approve settlements that give the lawyers millions of dollars in fees and give the clients worthless coupons .  let us take a look at madison county , illinois with this chart .  madison county , illinois has been called the number one judicial hellhole in the united states .  in 2002 we can see there were 77 class action filings , and in 2003 there were 106 class action lawsuits filed .  the movie `` bridges of madison county '' was a love story .  the `` judges of madison county '' would be a horror flick .  unfortunately , all too often it is the lawyer who drives these cases and not the individuals who are supposedly hurt .  for example , in a suit against blockbuster over late fees , the attorneys received for themselves $ 9.25 million , while their clients got a $ 1-off discount coupon .  similarly , in a lawsuit against the company who makes cheerios , the lawyers received $ 2 million for themselves ; predictably their clients received a coupon for a box of cheerios .  in a nutshell , these out-of-control class action lawsuits are killing jobs , they are hurting small business people who can not afford to defend themselves , they are hurting consumers who end up paying higher prices for goods and services .  this legislation provides much-needed reform in two key areas .  first , it eliminates much of the forum shopping by requiring most of these nationwide class action suits to be filed in federal court .  and , second , it cracks down on these coupon-based class action settlements by requiring fee awards to be based on the number of coupons actually redeemed or the number of hours actually billed .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on this class action reform legislation .  it is about common sense , it is about justice , and it is about time .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his excellent work on this very important piece of legislation .  i rise in opposition to this rule and i rise in opposition to the underlying legislation .  in the 1960s , president kennedy used to say , `` ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for your country. '' today , republican leaders in washington have issued a new challenge : `` ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for the country club. '' that is what this bill is all about .  it is protecting the country club members from the responsibility for the harm which they potentially inflict from their corporate perspectives on ordinary citizens within our society .  the class-action bill is part of an overall strategy which the republican party has put in place in order to harm consumers all across our country , to repeal the protections that have been placed upon the books for two generations that ensure that the individual in our society is given the protection which they need .  here is their strategy .  it is a simple , four-part strategy .  number one , first is the `` borrow and spend '' strategy .  that is all part of this idea that paul o'neill mentioned , the former secretary of treasury for george bush , when he said that dick cheney said to him , `` reagan proved that deficits do n't matter. '' of course , the reason they do not matter is that , as grover norquist has pointed out quite clearly , the architect of this republican strategy , the key goal has to be to starve the beast ; the beast , of course , being the federal government 's ability to help ordinary people , to help ordinary citizens , to help ordinary consumers in our country when they are being harmed .  so this idea that there is less and less money then starves the federal agencies given the responsibility for protecting the public , the federal drug administration , the consumer product safety commission ; agency after agency left with not enough resources to protect the consumer , which they were intended to do .  secondly , there is the grim reaper of regulatory relief , where the office of management and budget inside of the bush administration ensures that any regulation that is meant to protect the consumer is tied up in endless rounds of peer review and cost-benefit analysis , weighing the lives of ordinary consumers against the money that corporations might have to spend in order to make sure that their products are not defective , that they do not harm ordinary citizens across our country .  then there is stage three , the fox in the hen house .  this is where the bush administration then appoints somebody from the industry that is meant to be regulated as the head of the agency , knowing that that individual has no likelihood of actually putting on the books the kinds of protections which are needed .  then , finally , after the federal government is not capable of really protecting ordinary citizens , their safety , their health , then what they say to the citizen is , by the way , now we are going to make it almost impossible for you to go to court to protect yourself , to bring a case .  that is what this bill is all about , that final step .  you can not even as an individual partner with other people to go to court .  and here is what it says .  it says that all of these cases are going to federal court , unless a significant defendant is in fact a citizen of the state .  well , think about this .  let us go to new hampshire .  new hampshire is a perfect example .  new hampshire has a suit which it has brought against 22 oil and chemical companies because of the pollution in the state 's waterways with mtbe , a deadly , dangerous material which has harmed people all across our country , but new hampshire is the best example .  under this new law , because the principal defendant in the case is amerada hess and because it is headquartered in new york and it is the principal defendant , not only amerada hess but the other 22 companies , not only is amerada hess , this big company , and the other 22 companies who have arrived in new hampshire , polluting the state , given the relief of not having the case be held in the state of new hampshire , with new hampshire judges and new hampshire citizens , instead it is removed to the federal court , so the republicans can name judges who they know are going to be sympathetic to the companies , not the state of new hampshire , not their judges , not their people .  that is what this is all about .  it is making sure that ordinary citizens in new hampshire , whose families have been harmed , whose health is permanently ruined , can not bring a case against large corporations .  who gets the benefit of this ?  the defendant .  the defendant .  they come in from out-of-state , they pollute , they harm , they ruin the lives of people , and then the defendant says , `` i do n't want to be tried in new hampshire .  i do n't want to be tried in texas .  i do n't want to be tried in that state .  i want to go some other place. '' what about the plaintiffs ?  what about the people who have been harmed ?  what about the mothers ?  what about the children ?  what about the people who have lost their health ?  this is the final nail that the republicans are putting in the coffin of the rights of ordinary citizens to be able to protect themselves .  all of these cases should be brought in the state courts where the large corporation caused the harm , not in a federal court away from the closest people who know what is right and wrong inside of that state .  mr. speaker , vote no on this critical bill .  vote no on the rule .  vote to protect the consumers , the families , the children , the seniors in our country who the republicans are going to allow to be jeopardized by moving the cases from where they live to places where the defendants , the largest corporations , will be able to protect their own selfish self-interests .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , my colleague from georgia had kind of quoted from a study implying that most of these class-action cases would remain in states , that the whole purpose of this bill is to try to move them to federal courts .  let me quote from a cbo cost estimate which says that under this bill , most class-action lawsuits would be heard in federal district court , rather than in the state court .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would like to read a couple of cases here .  mrs. higgins  of tennessee was a 39-year-old woman who died of a sudden heart attack after taking vioxx .  she was the mother of a 9-year-old son .  when she was diagnosed with the early onset of rheumatoid arthritis , vioxx was prescribed .  she had no former cardiac problems or family history .  according to her medical records , mrs. higgins  was in otherwise excellent health ; but on september 25 , 2004 , she died of a sudden heart attack , less than a month after she started taking vioxx .  she was buried on the very day in september that merck took vioxx off the market .  on october 28 , 2004 , her husband , monty , filed a claim against merck in the superior court of new jersey , atlantic city division .  why new jersey ?  this couple is from tennessee .  because that is the state where merck is headquartered .  in an interview on `` 60 minutes , '' mr. higgins  said , `` i believe my wife would be here if merck had decided to take vioxx off the market just 1 month earlier. '' then there is richard `` dickie '' irvin of florida who was a 53-year-old former football coach and president of the athletic booster association .  he had received his college football scholarship and was inducted into the school 's football hall of fame .  he went on to play in canadian league football until suffering a career-ending injury .  in addition to coaching , he worked at a family-owned seafood shop where he was constantly moving crates of seafood .  he rarely went to see a doctor and had no major medical problems .  in april of 2001 , mr. irvin was prescribed vioxx for his football knee injury from years ago .  approximately 23 days after he began taking vioxx , mr. irvin died from a sudden , unexpected heart attack .  an autopsy revealed that his heart attack was caused by a sudden blood clot .  this is the exact type of injury that has been associated with vioxx use .  mr. irvin and his wife of 31 years had four children and three grandchildren .  i could read more cases involving vioxx , but most people in this house , mr. speaker , probably agree with me that merck should be held accountable if they knew about the harmful effects of vioxx .  the class action section of this bill , however , would allow merck and other corporate defendants to delay their day of reckoning for years and years and years ; and justice for these individuals ' families would be delayed ; and justice delayed is justice denied .  again , this bill should be defeated .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me close by saying , this bill is not about lawyers .  it is about people , and it is about state governments and attorney generals being able to pass laws in their own states to better protect their people .  and it is ironic and it is almost kind of laughable that the majority , which has made it a point to argue on behalf of states right , is basically turning its back on what states have done to protect their people .  the previous speaker talked about making sure that the plaintiffs got what they deserved .  well , we are concerned about making sure that the plaintiffs get their day in court .  and under this bill it makes it more difficult , especially for low-wage workers , for people who are battling discrimination to be able to have their day in court .  the system clearly can be improved .  nobody is arguing that .  what i am saying here is that the bill before us does not provide the justice and the fairness that i think is appropriate .  so i would urge my colleagues to oppose this bill .  of state legislatures , february 2 , 2005 .  dear senator : on behalf of the national conference of state legislatures ( ncsl ) , i am urging you to oppose passage of s. 5 , the `` class action fairness act of 2005. '' this legislation will federalize class actions involving only state law claims .  s. 5 undermines our system of federalism , disrespects our state court system , and clearly preempts carefully crafted state judicial processes which have been in place for decades regarding the treatment of class action lawsuits .  the overall tenor of s. 5 sends a disturbing message to the american people that state court systems are somehow inferior or untrustworthy .  s. 5 amends the federal rules of civil procedure to grant federal district courts original diversity jurisdiction over any class action lawsuit where the amount in controversy exceeds $ 5 , 000 , 000 or where any plaintiff is a citizen of a different state than any defendant , or in other words , any class action lawsuit .  the effect of s. 5 on state legislatures is that state laws in the areas of consumer protection and antitrust which were passed to protect the citizens of a particular state against fraudulent or illegal activities will almost never be heard in state courts .  ironically , state courts , whose sole purpose is to interpret state laws , will be bypassed and the federal judiciary will be asked to render judgment in these cases .  the impact of s. 5 is that state processes will be preempted by federal ones which are n't necessarily better .  ncsl opposes the passage of federal legislation , such as s. 5 which preempts established state authority .  state courts have traditionally and correcdy been the repository for most class action lawsuits because state laws , not federal ones , are at issue .  congress should proceed cautiously before permitting the federal government to interfere with the authority of states to set their own laws and procedures in their own courts .  ncsl urges congress to remember that state policy choices should not be overridden without a showing of compelling national need .  we should await evidence demonstrating that states have broadly overreached or are unable to address the problems themselves .  there must be evidence of harm to interests of national scope that require a federal response , and even with such evidence , federal preemption should be limited to remedying specific problems with tailored solutions , something that s. 5 does not do .  i urge you to oppose this legislation .  please contact susan parnas frederickat the national conference of statelegislatures at 202-624-3566 or susan.frederick @ ncsl.org for further information .  sincerely , new york state senator ; and chair , february 7 , 2005 .  dear senator : our organizations are opposed to the sweepingly drawn and misleadingly named `` class action fairness act of 2005. '' this bill is patently unfair to citizens harmed by toxic spills , contaminated drinking water , polluted air and other environmental hazards involved in class action cases based on state environmental or public health laws .  s. 5 would allow corporate defendants in many pollution class actions and `` mass tort '' environmental cases to remove these kinds of state environmental matters from state court to federal court , placing the cases in a forum that could be more costly , more time-consuming , and disadvantageous to your constituents harmed by toxic pollution .  state law environmental harm cases do not belong in this legislation and we urge you to exclude such pollution cases from the class action bill .  class actions protect the public 's health and the environment by allowing people with similar injuries to join together for more efficient and cost-effective adjudication of their cases .  all too often , hazardous spills , water pollution , or other toxic contamination from a single source affects large numbers of people , not all of whom may be citizens or residents of the same state as that of the defendants who caused the harm .  in such cases , a class action lawsuit in state court based on state common law doctrines of negligence , nuisance or trespass , or upon rights and duties created by state statutes in the state where the injuries occur , is often the best way of fairly resolving these claims .  for example , thousands of families around the country are now suffering because of widespread groundwater contamination caused by the gasoline additive mtbe , which the u.s. government considers a potential human carcinogen .  according to a may , 2002 gao report , 35 states reported that they find mtbe in groundwater at least 20 percent of the time they sample for it , and 24 states said that they find it at least 60 percent of the time .  some communities and individuals have brought or soon will bring suits to recover damages for mtbe contamination and hold the polluters accountable , but under this bill , mtbe class actions or `` mass actions '' based on state law could be removed to federal court by the oil and gas companies in many of these cases .  this could not only make these cases more expensive , more time-consuming and more difficult for injured parties , but could also result in the dismissal of legitimate cases by federal judges who are unfamiliar with , or less respectful of , state-law claims .  for example , in at least one mtbe class action , a federal court dismissed the case based on oil companies ' claims that the action was barred by the federal clean air act ( even though that law contains no tort liability waiver for mtbe ) .  yet a california state court rejected a similar federal preemption argument and let the case go to a jury , which found oil refineries , fuel distributors , and others liable for damages .  these cases highlight how a state court may be more willing to uphold legitimate state law claims .  other examples of state-law in a letter to the senate last year , the u.s. judicial conference expressed their continued opposition to such broadly written class action removal legislation .  notably , their letter states that , even if congress determines that some `` significant multi-state class actions '' should be brought within the removal jurisdiction of the federal courts , congress should include certain limitations and exceptions , including for class actions `` in which plaintiff class members suffered personal injury or personal property damage within the state , as in the case of a serious environmental disaster. '' the judicial conference 's letter explains that this `` environmental harm '' exception should apply `` to all individuals who suffered personal injuries or losses to physical property , whether or not they were citizens of the state in question. '' we agree with the judicial conference that cases involving environmental harm are not even close to the type of cases that proponents of s. 5 cite when they call for reforms to the class action system .  including such cases in the bill penalizes injured parties in those cases for no reason other than to benefit the polluters .  no rationale has been offered by the bill 's supporters for including environmental cases in s. 5 's provisions .  we are unaware of any examples offered by bill supporters of environmental harm cases that represent alleged abuses of the state class actions .  more proof of the overreaching of this bill is that the so-called `` class action fairness act '' is not even limited to class action cases .  the bill contains a provision that would allow defendants to remove to federal court all environmental `` mass action '' cases involving more than 100 people -- even though these cases are not even filed as class actions .  for example , the bill would apply to cases similar to the recently concluded state-court trial in anniston , alabama , where a jury awarded damages to be paid by monsanto and solutia for injuring more than 3 , 500 people that the jury found had been exposed over many years -- with the companies ' knowledge -- to cancer-causing pcbs .  there is little doubt in the anniston case that , had s. 5 been law , the defendants would have tried to remove the case from the state court that serves the community that suffered this devastating harm .  even in the best-case scenario , s. 5 would put plaintiffs like those in anniston in the position of having to fight costly and time-consuming court battles in order to preserve their chosen forum for litigating their claims .  in any case , it would reward the kind of reckless corporate misbehavior demonstrated by monsanto and solutia by giving defendants in such cases the right to remove state-law cases to federal court over the objections of those they have injured .  the so-called `` class action fairness act '' would allow corporate polluters who harm the public 's health and welfare to exploit the availability of a federal forum whenever they perceive an advantage to doing so .  it is nothing more than an attempt to take legitimate state-court claims by injured parties out of state court at the whim of those who have committed the injury .  cases involving environmental harm and injury to the public from toxic exposure should not be subject to the bill 's provisions ; if these environmental harm cases are not excluded , we strongly urge you to vote against s. 5 .  sincerely , s. elizabeth birnbaum , vice president for government affairs , american rivers .  doug kendall , executive director , community rights counsel .  mary beth beetham , director of legislative affairs , defenders of wildlife .  sara zdeb , legislative director , friends of the earth .  anne georges , acting director of public policy , national audubon society .  karen wayland , legislative director , natural resources defense council .  tom z. collina , executive director , 20/20 vision .  linda lance , vice president for public policy , the wilderness society .  paul schwartz , national campaigns director , clean water action .  james cox , legislative counsel , earthjustice .  ken cook , executive director , environmental working group .  rick hind , legislative director , toxics campaign , greenpeace u.s. kevin s. curtis , vice president , national environmental trust .  ed hopkins , director , environmental quality programs , sierra club .  julia hathaway , legislative director , the ocean conservancy .  anna aurilio , legislative director , u.s. public interest research group .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 5 , the so-called class action fairness act .  few of us would stand here and argue that there is too much accountability in corporate america today .  in recent years , millions of our constituents have been swindled out of their retirement savings by corporate crooks at enron , worldcom , and other companies .  for years , many unscrupulous mutual fund managers were skimming off the top of their clients ' investment funds .  drug companies put new products on the market like vioxx that they knew to be unsafe .  this bill is a windfall for companies that have profited while causing harm to others .  and no industry is in a better position to benefit than the tobacco industry .  it 's little wonder that tobacco stocks rallied at the news that the senate had passed this bill .  i 'd like to read from a wall street analyst 's view of how this bill would impact the tobacco industry .  `` flash -- senate just passed class action bill -- positive for tobacco , '' the analyst writes .  `` the senate just passed a bill 72-26 which is designed to funnel class-action suits with plaintiffs in different states out of state courts and into the federal court system , which is typically much less sympathetic to such litigation .  the practical effect of the change could be that many cases will never be heard given how overburdened federal judges are , which might help limit the number of cases. '' i only wish that the proponents of this bill would use such candid language to describe its true intent -- to make sure that legitimate cases are never heard , and to shield corporations from accountability for their actions .  the class action system is a major reason why we have safer consumer products , more honest advertising , cleaner air and drinking water , and better workplace protections than many other countries .  all of us are empowered by the right to band together and seek justice .  class actions are one of the most effective and powerful ways we have to hold people accountable for their actions .  i oppose this attempt to shut the courthouse door to people who have been wronged .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time , even though i am in opposition to his position and favor this bill .  this is not a radical bill , nor is it regressive .  in fact , it is a reasonable compromise designed to address what is an abuse of the judicial system .  that is why the washington post endorses this bill .  it is why the democratic senators from new york , california , and illinois all voted for the bill .  in fact , democratic senators representing 19 states voted for this bill in the other body .  why did they do this ?  because they believe on balance that consumers are going to be better represented in federal courts .  and this notion that somehow state courts are going to be more inclined to represent consumer interests rather than federal courts on issues like tobacco and civil rights and so on , i do not think history proves that to be the case .  i am particularly sensitive to these charges that this bill is going to inhibit civil rights actions .  clearly if we look at history , it is the federal courts that have been far more insistent upon enforcement of civil rights than state courts .  even recently in the home depot case , a gender-discrimination case , it was settled with a $ 65 million settlement , filed in federal court .  the coca-cola racial-discrimination settlement , which guaranteed each class member recovery of at least $ 38 , 000 , was achieved in federal court .  contrast that to the bank of boston case , where the depositors in boston were not even aware they were members of a plaintiff class , where a lawyer filed suit down in alabama supposedly representing their interest , and they found out when they had their bank account reduced by $ 90 ; $ 90 was taken out of the mortgage escrow account from these depositors to pay the lawyers when they were not even aware they were a member of the plaintiff 's suit , and the lawyer walks off with $ 8.25 million .  that is judicial abuse , and that is what this bill corrects .  this is a reasonable bill .  the fact is that in so many state and local courts , they do not have the resources to go through the mountains of evidence that have to be presented in class action suits .  in federal courts they are far more likely to have those resources .  they have court clerks and they can hire magistrates that can go through all of the evidence .  there has been far too much abuse where judges have certified these settlements at the tort lawyer 's request and then , the defendant has to settle for large sums of money .  that is not the way it is supposed to work .  on balance , i think the judicial system will be far more fair , responsible , and reasonable under this compromise bill ; so i would urge my colleagues , particularly on the democratic side , to support this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this legislation .  today republicans are bringing to the floor as their first major legislative action a payback to big business at the expense of consumers .  the republican agenda is to ensure that some americans do not get their day in court .  make no mistake that this class action bill before us today is an extreme bill .  it is not a compromise bill as some have claimed .  it is an extreme bill that is an injustice to consumers and a windfall for irresponsible corporations .  consumers will be hit hard by this bill , mr. speaker .  it lumps together individual personal injury cases such as those involving vioxx , which are not class action under current procedures , and forces them into the federal courts .  doing so will greatly increase the likelihood that such cases will never be heard .  when americans are injured or even killed by vioxx or celebrex or discriminated against by walmart , they may never get their day in court .  those cases that do go forward will take significantly longer because the federal courts are overburdened and unequipped for this caseload .  that is why the bill is opposed by federal judges , including the judicial conference of the united states .  special interests have even admitted that the real intent of this bill is to clog the federal courts and , therefore , stop the cases .  to irresponsible corporations , however , the class action bill is a belated valentine .  it is exactly what they have asked for .  powerful corporations will largely be immune from the accountability that currently comes from meritorious state class action cases .  for example , this bill would help shield large corporations from any accountability for enron-style shareholder fraud , for activities that violate employee rights under state law , and for telemarketing fraud targeted at the elderly .  it should come as no surprise , however , that republicans are seeking yet another way to protect irresponsible corporations .  the washington post reported that last year 's republican medical malpractice bill contained special liability protections that would have precluded consumers from suing to recover punitive damages arising for the types of injuries caused by vioxx and celebrex .  protecting big drug companies is always at the top of the republican agenda .  we saw that in the prescription drug bill under medicare .  this is yet again another example of republicans being the handmaidens of the pharmaceutical industry .  this bill also runs counter to the principles of federalism that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim to support .  it throws thousands of state cases into federal courts that are not equipped to adjudicate state laws .  for instance , lawsuits involving the enforcement of the state hourly wage laws , which often have greater protections than federal wage laws , would be forced into federal courts .  in fact , 46 state attorneys general on a bipartisan basis have requested an exemption so that they can continue to protect their citizens under the state consumer protection laws in state courts .  the republicans have rejected that request while democrats have incorporated it into our substitute .  democrats in our substitute support sensible approaches that weed out frivolous lawsuits but not meritorious claims .  our democratic substitute says that certain kinds of cases must always have their day in court .  physical injury cases , civil rights cases , wage and hour cases , state attorneys general cases , and others must be heard if we are to remain a nation that strives for justice for all .  president harry truman said it so well .  `` the democratic party stands for the people .  the republican party stands , and has always stood , for special interest. '' i urge my colleagues to stand up to the special interests , to support the democratic substitute , to listen , to listen to the recommendation of the federal judges and the judicial conference of the united states and oppose this extreme legislation .  mr. speaker , the class action fairness act could not be more inappropriately named , and this motion to commit shows why .  since 1999 , merck has spent over $ 100 million a year to advertise vioxx .  more than 80 million people took vioxx , and the drug generated sales of $ 2.5 billion for merck .  merck should take responsibility for the harm their products may cause .  thousands , literally thousands of american families believe they lost a loved one or suffered personal harm because vioxx was unsafe .  these families believe merck knew of the danger vioxx was causing , but allowed the drug to remain on the market anyway .  maybe they are right .  maybe they are not .  but the point is that the so-called class action fairness act does not give them a fair chance to make their case before a jury of their peers .  the class action fairness act makes it very difficult for those who feel they were harmed by drugs like vioxx from getting the justice they deserve .  we should adopt this motion to commit and pass a class action fairness act worthy of the name .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 5 .  the sponsors of this bill call it the class action fairness act , but nothing about this bill is fair , especially for the victims of corporate wrongdoing .  this bill erects a nearly insurmountable barrier for everyday americans , who have been hurt or wronged , to have their day in court .  thanks to the so-called class action fairness act , people who have had their civil rights trampled on will no longer be able to bring their claims to state court .  it does not matter if the laws of their home state provide better civil rights protections or that it may be more convenient for the victims of discrimination to seek justice in a court where they live .  with s. 5 they must go to federal court .  the same burden is put on the backs of hourly wage workers who sue for back pay that they are owed .  these folks are struggling to put food on their family 's table , and they almost certainly can not afford the high cost of multistate litigation .  with s. 5 they , too , must bring their claims to a federal court that may not even be in their state just so that they can get the back pay that they do .  i ask all the proponents of this bill , is that their idea of fairness ?  let us be real .  s. 5 is not about reducing venue shopping .  it is not about the mythical scourge of predatory plaintiffs ' lawyers , and it is not about the fabricated economic drain of excessive jury awards .  what this bill really is about is doing a favor for unscrupulous , negligent corporations by making it harder for their victims to sue them .  it is protecting big businesses who are guilty of wrongdoing from liability .  i am a lawyer and i acknowledge that there are some members of my profession who file frivolous suits .  but if the lawyers are the ones that they claim are ruining this legal system , why are the sponsors of this bill making it harder for the victims ?  this bill makes about as much sense as locking the door of a hospital in order to lower health care costs .  kicking people out of the system does not solve the problem , and that is exactly what s. 5 does .  it penalizes the victims of wrongdoing without doing anything to improve our legal system , and it shields bad actors from having to face the consequences of their action .  where is the personal responsibility ?  that is why i oppose this bill .  i urge all of my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the final passage and to vote `` yes '' on the conyers substitute .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , we hear all this hoopla about these coupon settlements , but we do not hear any suggestion as to what to do about them .  there are a lot of situations where corporations are ripping people off for small amounts of money .  for example , if a person at a checkout counter calibrates the machine to just cheat one out of a few cents , what is one 's recovery in that case ?  just a few cents .  and the only way one can stop that is with a class action .  but they would suggest there is no point in bringing the class action ; as long as they did not rip them off for too much , they ought to get away with it .  furthermore , a lot of these coupon settlements are in federal courts anyway , so there is not going to be much change .  but some of these coupon cases are the only way that we can rein in corporate abuse .  but this bill just increases complications in a gratuitous way .  it took a half an hour for the proponents to explain when it is a class action and when it is not a class action .  in normal cases they file it in state court .  either they certify it or not , and then one goes forward .  there is not much complication .  but this invites mischief .  whether it is really a class action or not , remove it anyway , and let the federal courts mess around with it and mess around with it and mess around with it .  they may never get their day in court .  and if they do not certify it , what happens to one 's case ?  they may not be able to get back to state court .  so the fact that they did not certify a class action will deny one the right to even have their day in court .  this complicates venue .  they do not know where the case is going to be heard .  it could be that an injury happens in one state , they have corporations in that state involved , they have state plaintiffs , and here one has to go chasing around , trying to figure out where they are going to be .  the attorneys general across the states , 47 attorneys general in states and territories , have come out against the bill because it puts the attorneys general in the same crack .  they do not know where the case is going to be heard .  if they bring a state action in state court , they may get removed .  some of the states have better wage laws , civil rights laws , sometimes consumer protections , and if the attorneys general want to come in to protect their own citizens in their own states , they ought to have that right and not get jerked around to federal court .  finally , mr. speaker , some federal courts are more clogged up than state courts .  some in the same area , the state courts are more clogged up than the federal courts .  why do we have to always go into federal court on these cases rather than have some kind of choice ?  every time we have a criminal case , it will take preference over the civil cases .  and in some cases where we have some terrorist cases or a backlog of federal cases , one may never get to hear their case in federal court .  if we want consumers to get timely justice , we need to defeat this bill , and i hope that is what we do .  madam speaker , pursuant to house resolution 96 , i call up the senate bill ( s. 5 ) to amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions to assure fairer outcomes for class members and defendants , and for other purposes , and ask for its immediate consideration .  madam speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on s. 5 .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , i rise in strong support of s. 5 , the class action fairness act of 2005 .  today marks the culmination of nearly a decade of legislative efforts to end systematic abuse of our nation 's class action system .  we stand on the cusp of sending landmark legislation on civil-justice reform to the president that has been approved by increasing majorities each time it has been considered by the house in each of the last three congresses and which passed the other body last week with an overwhelming majority of 72 votes .  since these reforms were first proposed , the magnitude of the class action crisis , the need to address it has become more and more urgent .  the crisis now threatens the integrity of our civil justice system and undermines the economic vitality upon which job creation depends .  a major element of the worsening crisis is the exponential increase in state class action cases in a handful of `` magnet '' or `` magic '' jurisdictions , many of which deal with national issues in classes .  in the last 10 years , state court class actions filings nationwide have increased over 1 , 315 percent .  the infamous handful of magnet courts known for certifying even the most speculative class action suits , the increase in filings now exceeds 5 , 000 percent .  the only explanation for this phenomenon is aggressive forum shopping by trial lawyers to find courts and judges who will act as willing accomplices in a judicial power grab , hearing nationwide cases and setting policy for the entire country .  a second major feature of the present class action crisis is a system producing outrageous settlements that benefit only lawyers and trample the rights of class members .  class actions were originally created to efficiently address a large number of similar claims by people suffering small harms .  today they are too often used to efficiently transfer the large fees to a small number of trial lawyers , with little benefit to the plaintiffs .  the present rules encourage a race to any available state courthouse in the hopes of a rubber-stamped nationwide settlement that produces millions in attorney 's fees for the winning plaintiff 's attorney .  the race to settle produces outcomes that favor expediency and profits for lawyers over justice and fairness for consumers .  the losers in this race are the victims who often gain little or nothing through the settlement , yet are bound by it in perpetuity .  and all americans bear the cost of these settlements through increased prices for goods and services .  the bill before the house today offers commonsense procedural changes that will end the most serious abuses by allowing more interstate class actions to be heard in federal courts while keeping truly local cases in state courts .  its core provisions are similar to those passed by this body in the last three congresses .  s. 5 also implements a consumer bill of rights that will keep class members from being used by the lawyers they never hired to engage in litigation they do not know about or to extort money they will never see .  madam speaker , when the house considered this important reform in the last congress , i remarked that , `` the class action judicial system has become a joke , and no one is laughing except the trial lawyers ... ..  all the way to the bank. '' i imagine that laughter turned to nervous chuckles when s. 5 emerged unscathed from the gauntlet in the other body with 72 votes last week .  today , as the house prepares to pass this bill , i suspect you could hear a pin drop in the halls of infamous courthouses located in madison county , illinois and jefferson county , texas , where for so long the good times have rolled for forum-shopping plaintiffs ' attorneys and the judges who enable them .  and when this legislation is signed by the president one day soon , those same halls may echo with sobs and curses because this time justice and fairness and the american people will have the last laugh .  madam speaker , after years of toil , the moment has arrived .  the opportunity to restore common sense , rationality , and dignity to our class action system is now before us , and the need for reform has never been more certain .  i urge my colleagues to support the class action fairness act of 2005 .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , first , i have a lengthy additional statement explaining how this bill is to work .  we do not have the time in general debate for me to give this statement on the floor , so i will insert the statement relative to the intent of the managers of the bill in the record at this point .  madam speaker , i would like to provide a brief summary of the provisions in sections 4 and 5 of s. 5 , the class action fairness act of 2005 .  section 4 gives federal courts jurisdiction over class action lawsuits in which the aggregate amount in controversy exceeds $ 5 million , and at least one plaintiff and one defendant are diverse .  overall , new section 1332 ( d ) is intended to expand substantially federal court jurisdiction over class actions .  its provisions should be read broadly , with a strong preference that interstate class actions should be heard in a federal court if removed by any defendant .  if a purported class action is removed under these jurisdictional provisions , the named plaintiff ( s ) should bear the burden of demonstrating that the removal was improper .  and if a federal court is uncertain about whether the $ 5 million threshold is satisfied , the court should err in favor of exercising jurisdiction over the case .  the sponsors intend that in a case seeking injunctive relief , a matter be subject to federal jurisdiction under this provision if the value of the matter in litigation exceeds $ 5 million either from the viewpoint of the plaintiff or the defendant , and regardless of the type of relief sought ( e.g. , damages , injunctive relief , or declaratory relief ) .  similarly , in assessing the jurisdictional amount in declaratory relief cases , the federal court should include in its assessment the value of all relief and benefits that would logically flow from granting the declaratory relief sought by the claimants .  for example , a declaration that a defendant 's conduct is unlawful or fraudulent will carry certain consequences , such as the need to cease and desist from that conduct , that will often `` cost '' the defendant in excess new subsections 1332 ( d ) ( 3 ) and ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) address the jurisdictional principles that will apply to class actions filed against a defendant in its home state , dividing such cases into three categories .  first , for cases in which two-thirds or more of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are citizens of the state in which the suit was filed , subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) states that such cases will remain in state court .  second , cases in which more than two-thirds of the members of the plaintiff class or one or more of the primary defendants are not citizens of the forum state will be subject to federal jurisdiction since such cases are predominantly interstate in nature .  finally , there is a middle category of class actions in which more than one-third but fewer than two-thirds of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are all citizens first , the court should consider whether the claims asserted are of `` significant national or interstate interest. '' under this factor , if a case presents issues of national or interstate significance , that argues in favor of the matter being handled in federal court .  second , the court should consider whether the claims asserted will be governed by laws other than those of the forum state .  under this factor , if the federal court determines that multiple state laws will apply to aspects of the class action , that determination would favor having the matter heard in the federal court system , which has a record of being more respectful of the laws of the various states in the class action context .  the third factor is whether the class action has been pleaded in a manner that seeks to avoid federal jurisdiction .  the purpose of this inquiry is to determine whether the plaintiffs have proposed a `` natural '' class that encompasses all of the people and claims that one would expect to include in a class action , as opposed to proposing a class that appears to be gerrymandered solely to avoid federal jurisdiction by leaving out certain potential class members or claims .  if the federal court concludes evasive pleading is involved , that factor would favor the exercise of the fifth factor asks whether the number of citizens of the forum state in the proposed plaintiff class ( es ) is substantially larger than the number of citizens from any other state , and the citizenship of the other members of the proposed class ( es ) is dispersed among a substantial number of states .  if all of the class members who do not reside in the state where the action was filed are widely dispersed among many other states , that point would suggest that the interests of the forum state in litigating the controversy are preeminent .  however , if a court finds that the citizenship of the other class members is not widely dispersed , the opposite balance would be indicated and a federal forum would be favored .  finally , the sixth factor is whether one or more class actions asserting the same or similar claims on behalf of the same or other persons have been filed in the last three years .  the purpose of this factor is efficiency and fairness : to determine whether a matter should be subject to federal jurisdiction so that it can be coordinated with other overlapping or parallel class actions .  if other class actions on new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 4 ) ( a ) is the `` local controversy exception. '' this subsection prohibits federal courts from exercising diversity jurisdiction over a class action under the foregoing provisions if the plaintiffs clearly demonstrate that each and every one of the following criteria are satisfied in the case at issue .  first , more than two-thirds of class members are citizens of the forum state .  second , there is at least one in-state defendant from whom significant relief is sought by members of the class and whose conduct forms a significant basis of plaintiffs ' claims .  third , the principal injuries resulting from the alleged conduct , or related conduct , of each defendant were incurred in the state where the action was originally filed .  and fourth , no other class action asserting the same or similar factual allegations against any of the defendants on behalf of the same or other persons has been filed during the preceding three years .  this provision is intended to respond to concerns that class actions with a truly local focus should not be moved to federal court under this legislation because state courts have a strong interest in adjudicating such disputes .  at the same time , this is a narrow exception that was carefully drafted to ensure that it does not become a jurisdictional loophole .  thus , in assessing whether each of these criteria is satisfied by a particular case , a federal court should bear in mind that the purpose of each of these criteria is to identify a truly local controversy -- a controversy that uniquely affects a particular locality to the exclusion of all others .  for example , under the second criterion , there must be at least one real local defendant .  by that , the sponsors intend that the local defendant must be a primary focus of the plaintiffs ' claims -- not just a peripheral defendant .  the local defendant must be a target from whom significant relief is sought by the class ( as opposed to just a subset of the class membership ) , as well as being a defendant whose alleged conduct forms a significant basis for the claims asserted by the class .  similarly , the third criterion is that the principal injuries resulting from the actions of all the defendants must have occurred in the state where the suit was filed .  by this criterion , the sponsors mean that the fourth and final criterion is that no other class action involving similar allegations has been filed against any of the defendants over the last three years on behalf of the same or other persons .  once again , the sponsors wish to stress that the inquiry under this criterion should not be whether identical ( or nearly identical ) class actions have been filed .  rather , the inquiry is whether similar factual allegations have been made against the defendant in multiple class actions , regardless of whether the same causes of actions were asserted or whether the purported plaintiff classes were the same ( or even overlapped in significant respects ) .  new subsections 1332 ( d ) ( 5 ) ( a ) and ( b ) specify that s. 5 does not extend federal diversity jurisdiction to class actions in which ( a ) the primary defendants are states , state officials , or other governmental entities against whom the district court may be foreclosed from ordering relief , or ( b ) the number of members of all proposed plaintiff classes in the aggregate is fewer than 100 class members .  the purpose of the `` state action '' cases provision is to prevent states , state officials , or other governmental entities from dodging legitimate claims by removing class actions to federal court and then arguing that the federal courts are constitutionally prohibited from granting the requested relief .  however , federal courts should proceed cautiously before declining federal jurisdiction under the `` state action '' case exception , and do so only when it is clear that the primary defendants are indeed states , state officials , or other governmental entities against whom the `` court may be foreclosed from ordering relief. '' the sponsors wish to stress that this provision should not become a subterfuge for avoiding federal jurisdiction .  in particular , plaintiffs should not be permitted to name state entities as defendants as a mechanism to avoid federal jurisdiction over class actions that largely target non-governmental defendants .  the sponsors intend that `` primary defendants '' be interpreted to reach those defendants who are the real `` targets '' of the lawsuit -- i.e. , the defendants that would be expected to incur most of the loss if liability is found .  it is the sponsors ' intention with regard to each of these exceptions that the party opposing federal jurisdiction shall have the burden of demonstrating the applicability of an exemption .  the sponsors understand that in assessing the various criteria established in all of these new jurisdictional provisions , a federal court may have to engage in some fact-finding , not unlike what is necessitated by the existing jurisdictional statutes .  the sponsors further understand that in some instances , limited discovery may be necessary to make these determinations .  however , the sponsors caution that these jurisdictional determinations should be made largely on the basis of readily available information .  allowing substantial , burdensome discovery on jurisdictional issues would be contrary to the intent of these provisions to encourage the exercise of federal jurisdiction over class actions .  under new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 9 ) , the act excludes from its jurisdictional provisions class actions that solely involve claims that relate to matters of corporate governance arising out of state law .  the purpose of this provision is to avoid disturbing in any way the federal vs .  state court jurisdictional lines already drawn in the securities litigation class action context by the enactment of the securities litigation uniform standards act of 1998 .  the sponsors intend that this exemption be narrowly construed .  by corporate governance litigation , the sponsors mean only litigation based solely on ( a ) state statutory law regulating the organization and governance of business enterprises such as corporations , partnerships , limited partnerships , limited liability companies , new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) expands federal jurisdiction over mass actions -- suits that are brought on behalf of numerous named plaintiffs who claim that their suits present common questions of law or fact that should be tried together even though they do not seek class certification status .  mass action cases function very much like class actions and are subject to many of the same abuses .  under subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) , any civil action in which 100 or more named parties seek to try their claims for monetary relief together will be treated as a class action for jurisdictional purposes .  the sponsors wish to stress that a complaint in which 100 or more plaintiffs are named fits the criteria of seeking to try their claims together , because there would be no other apparent reason to include all of those claimants in a single action unless the intent was to secure a joint trial of the claims asserted in the action .  the sponsors also wish to stress that this provision is when all the claims asserted in the action arise out of an event or occurrence in the state where , the suit is filed and the injuries were incurred in that state and contiguous states ( e.g. , a toxic spill case ) and ( 2 ) when the claims are asserted on behalf of the general public ( and not on behalf of individual claimants or members of a purported class ) pursuant to a state statute specifically authorizing such an action .  the first exception would apply only to a truly local single event with no substantial interstate effects .  the purpose of this exception is to allow cases involving environmental torts such as a chemical spill to remain in state court if both the event and the injuries were truly local , even though there are some out-of-state defendants .  by contrast , this exception would not apply to a product liability or insurance case .  the second exception also addresses a very narrow situation , specifically a law like the california unfair competition law , which allows individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the general public .  subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ( b ) ( i ) includes a statement indicating that jurisdiction exists only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirements under section 1332 ( a ) .  it is the sponsors ' intent that although remands of individual claims not meeting the section 1332 jurisdictional amount requirement may take the action below the 100-plaintiff jurisdictional threshold or the $ 5 million jurisdictional amount requirement , those subsequent remands should not extinguish federal diversity jurisdiction over the action as long as the mass action met the various jurisdictional requirements at the time of removal .  under subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ( c ) , a mass action removed to a federal court under this provision may not be transferred to another federal court under the mdl statute ( 28 u.s.c .  1407 ) unless a majority of the plaintiffs request such a transfer .  the sponsors wish to make clear that this restriction on mdl transfers applies only to mass actions as defined in subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ; the legislation does not more broadly restrict the authority of the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation to transfer class actions removed to federal court under this legislation .  under subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ( d ) , the statute of limitations for any claims that are part of a mass action will be tolled while the mass action is pending in federal court .  the removal provisions in section 5 of the legislation are self-explanatory and attempt to put an end to the type of gaming engaged in by plaintiffs ' lawyers to keep cases in state court .  they should thus be interpreted with this intent in mind .  in addition , new subsection 1453 ( c ) provides that an order remanding a class action to state court is reviewable by appeal at the discretion of the reviewing court .  the sponsors note that the current prohibition on remand order review was added to section 1447 after the federal diversity jurisdictional statutes and the related removal statutes had been subject to appellate review for many years and were the subject of considerable appellate level interpretive law .  the sponsors believe it is important thank you , madam speaker , for allowing me to provide an explanation of these jurisdictional provisions .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman 's question .  section 4 of the bill gives federal courts jurisdiction over class action lawsuits in which the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $ 5 million , excluding interests and costs and at least one proposed class member and one defendant are citizens of different states or countries .  for purposes of the citizenship element of this analysis , s. 5 does not alter current law .  thus , a corporation will continue to be deemed a citizen of any state by which it has been incorporated and of the state where it has its principal place of business .  however , the bill provides that for purposes of this new section , and section 1453 of title 28 , an unincorporated association shall be deemed to be a citizen of the state where it has its principal place of business and the state under whose laws it organized .  this provision is added to ensure that unincorporated associations receive the same treatment as corporations for purposes of diversity jurisdiction .  new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 10 ) corrects this anomaly .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , under new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 6 ) , the claims of the individual class members in any class action shall be aggregated to determine whether the amount in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $ 5 million .  the sponsors intend this subsection to be interpreted broadly , and if a purported class action is removed under this provision , the plaintiff shall bear the burden of demonstrating that the $ 5 million threshold is not satisfied .  by the same token , if a federal court is uncertain about whether a case puts $ 5 million or more in controversy , the court should favor exercising jurisdiction over the case .  this principle applies to class actions seeking injunctive relief as well .  the sponsors intend that a matter be subject to federal jurisdiction under this provision if the value of the matter in litigation exceeds the $ 5 million , either from the viewpoint of the plaintiff or the viewpoint of the defendant , regardless of the type of relief sought , such as damages , injunctive relief or declaratory relief .  the sponsors are aware that some courts , especially in the class action context , have declined to exercise federal jurisdiction over cases on the grounds that the amount in controversy in those cases exceeded the jurisdictional threshold only when assessed from the viewpoint of the defendant .  for example , a class action seeking injunctive relief that would require a defendant to restructure its business in some fundamental way might cost a defendant well in excess of $ 75 , 000 under current law , but might have substantially less value to each plaintiff or even to the class of plaintiffs as a whole .  because s. 5 explicitly allows aggregation for the purposes of determining the amount of controversy in class actions , that concern is no longer relevant .  to the extent plaintiffs seek to avoid this rule by framing their cases as individual actions for injunctive relief , most federal courts have properly held that in an individual case the cost of injunctive relief is viewed from the defendant 's perspective .  this legislation extends that principle to class actions as well .  the same approach would apply in a case involving declaratory relief .  in determining how much money a declaratory relief case puts in controversy , the federal court should include in its assessment the value of all relief and benefits that would logically flow from the granting of the declaratory relief sought by the plaintiffs .  for example , a declaration that a defendant 's conduct is unlawful or fraudulent will carry certain consequences , such as the need to cease and desist from that conduct that will often cost the defendant in excess of $ 5 million ; or a declaration that a standardized product sold throughout the nation is defective might well put a case over the $ 5 million threshold , even if the class complaint did not affirmatively seek a determination that each class member was injured by the product .  the bottom line is that new section 1332 ( d ) is intended to substantially expand federal court jurisdiction over class actions , not to create loopholes .  this provision should be read broadly , with a strong preference that interstate class actions should be heard in a federal court if properly removed by a defendant .  reclaiming my time , madam speaker , i am pleased to answer the gentleman .  the first factor is whether the claims asserted are of significant national or interstate interest .  under this factor , if a case presents issues of national or interstate significance that argues in favor of the matter being handled in federal court , for example , if a class action alleges a nationally distributed pharmaceutical product caused side effects , those cases presumably should be heard in federal court because of the nationwide ramifications of the dispute and the potential interface with federal drug laws .  under this factor , the federal court should inquire whether the case does present issues of national or interstate significance of this sort .  if such issues are identified , that point favors the exercise of the federal jurisdiction .  the second factor is whether the claims asserted will be governed by laws other than those of the forum state .  the sponsors believe that one of the significant problems posed by multistate class actions in state court is the tendency of some state courts to be less than respectful of the laws of other jurisdictions , applying the law of one state to an entire nationwide controversy and thereby ignoring the distinct and varying state laws that should apply to various claims included in the class , depending upon where they arose .  under this factor , if the federal court determines that multiple state laws will apply to aspects of the class action , the determination would favor having the matter handled in the federal court system , which has a record of being more respectful of the laws of various states in the class action controversy .  conversely , if the court concludes that the laws of the state to which the action was filed will apply to the entire controversy , that factor will favor keeping the case in state court .  the third factor is whether the class action has been pleaded in a manner that seeks to avoid federal jurisdiction .  the purpose of this inquiry is to determine whether the plaintiffs have proposed a natural class , a class that encompasses all the people and claims that one would expect to include in a class action , as opposed to proposing a class that appears to be gerrymandered solely to avoid federal jurisdiction by leaving out certain potential class members or claims .  if the federal court concludes that evasive pleading is involved , that factor would favor the exercise of federal jurisdiction .  on the other hand , if the class definition and claims appear to follow a natural pattern , that consideration would favor allowing the matter to be handled by a state court .  the fourth factor is whether there is a distinct nexus between , a , the forum where the action was brought , and , b , the class members , the alleged harm or the defendants .  this factor is intended to take account of a major concern that led to this legislation , the filing of lawsuits in the out-of-the-way magnet state courts that have no real relationship to the controversy at hand .  thus , if a majority of the proposed class action members and the defendants reside in the county where the suit is brought , the court might find a distinct nexus exists .  the key to this factor is the notion of there being a distinct nexus .  if the allegedly injured parties live in many other localities , the nexus is not distinct , and this factor would weigh heavily in favor of the exercise of federal jurisdiction over the matter .  the fifth factor is whether the number of citizens in the forum state in the proposed plaintiff class is substantially larger than the number of citizens from any other state , and the citizens of the other members of the proposed class is dispersed among a substantial number of states .  this factor is intended to look at the geographic distribution of class members in an effort to determine the forum state 's interest in handling the litigation .  if all of the out-of-state class members are widely dispersed among many other states , that point would suggest that the interest of the forum state in litigating the controversy are preeminent .  the sponsors intend that such a conclusion would favor allowing the state court in which the action was originally filed to handle the litigation .  however , if a court finds that the citizenship of the other class members is not widely dispersed , then a federal forum would be more appropriate because several states other than the forum state would have a strong interest in the controversy .  the final factor is whether one or more class actions asserting the same or similar claims on behalf of the same or other persons have been filed in the last 3 years .  the purpose of this factor is to determine whether a matter should be subject to federal jurisdiction so that it can be coordinated with other overlapping or parallel class actions .  if the other class actions on the same subject have been or are likely to be filed elsewhere , the sponsors intend that this consideration would strongly favor the exercise of federal jurisdiction .  it is the sponsors ' intention that this factor be broadly interpreted and that plaintiffs not be able to plead around it with creative legal theories .  if a plaintiff brings a product liability suit alleging consumer fraud or unjust enrichment , and another suit was previously brought against some of the same defendants alleging negligence with regard to the same product , this factor would favor the exercise of federal jurisdiction over the later-filed claim .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , yes , this provision is intended to respond to concerns that class actions with a truly local focus should not be moved to federal court under this legislation because state courts have a strong interest in adjudicating such disputes .  at the same time , this is a narrow exception that was carefully drafted to ensure that it does not become a jurisdictional loophole .  thus , each of the criteria is intended to identify a truly local class action .  first , there must be a primarily local class .  secondly , there must be at least one real local defendant .  and by that the drafters meant that the local defendant must be a primary focus of the plaintiffs ' claims , not just a retailer or other peripheral defendant .  the defendant must be a target from whom significant relief is sought by the class , as opposed to just a subset of the class membership , as well as being a defendant whose alleged conduct forms a significant basis for the claims asserted by the class .  for example , in a consumer fraud case , alleging that an insurance company incorporated and based in another state misrepresented its policies , the local agent of the company named as a defendant presumably would not fit this criteria .  he or she probably would have had contact with only some of the purported class members and , thus , would not be a person from whom significant relief would be sought by the plaintiff class viewed as a whole .  and , from a relief standpoint , the real demand of the full class in terms of seeking significant relief would be on the insurance company itself .  third , the principal injuries resulting from the actions of all the defendants must have occurred in the state where the suit was filed .  this criterion means that all or almost all of the damage caused by the defendants ' conduct occurred in the state where the suit was brought .  if defendants engaged in conduct that allegedly injured consumers throughout the country , the case would not qualify for the local controversy exception , even if it was only brought as a single state class action .  and , fourth , no other class action involving similar allegations has been filed against any of the defendants over the last 3 years .  in other words , if we are talking about a situation that results in multiple class actions , those are not the types of cases that this exception is intended to address .  i would like to stress that the inquiry under this criterion should not be whether identical or nearly identical class actions have been filed .  rather , the inquiry is whether similar factual allegations have been made against the defendant in multiple class actions , regardless of whether the same causes of action were asserted or whether the proposed plaintiff classes in the prior case was the same .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i will be happy to explain .  the mass action provision was included in the bill because mass actions are really class actions in disguise .  they involve an element of people who want their claims adjudicated together , and they often result in the same abuses as class actions .  in fact , sometimes the abuses are even worse because the lawyers seek to join claims that have little to do with each other and confuse a jury into awarding millions of dollars to individuals who have suffered no real injury .  here is how the mass action provision and the current amount-in-controversy provision would work in tandem : suppose 200 people file a mass action in mississippi against a new jersey drug manufacturer and also name a local drug store .  three of them assert claims for a million dollars apiece , and the rest assert claims of $ 20 , 000 .  the federal court would have jurisdiction over the mass action because there are more than 100 plaintiffs , there is minimal diversity , and the total amount of controversy exceeds $ 5 million , and a product liability case does not qualify for the local occurrence exception in the provision .  then the question becomes , which claims would , in the mass action , the federal judge keep in federal court , and which would be remanded ?  at this point the judge would have to look at each of the claims very carefully and determine whether or not they meet the $ 75 , 000 minimum .  in this regard , i would note that the plaintiffs often seek to minimize what they are seeking in the complaint so that they can stay in state court .  for example , sometimes plaintiffs leave their claim for punitive damages off the original complaint to make it seem like their claims are smaller than they really are .  it is our expectation that a federal judge would read a complaint very carefully and only remand claims that clearly do not meet the $ 75 , 000 threshold .  if it is likely that a plaintiff is going to turn around in a month and add an additional claim for punitive damages , the federal court should obviously assert jurisdiction over that individual 's claims .  finally , i would like to stress that this provision in no way is intended to abrogate 8 united states code 3867 to narrow current jurisdictional rules .  thus , if a federal court believed it to be appropriate , the court could apply supplemental jurisdiction in the mass action context as well .  with regard to the exceptions , it is our intent that they be interpreted strictly by a court so that they do not become loopholes for an important jurisdictional provision .  thus , the first exception would apply only in a situation where we are talking about a truly local single event with no substantial interstate effects .  the purpose of this exception is to allow cases involving environmental torts , such as a chemical spill , to remain in state court if both the event and the injuries were truly local , even though there are some out-of-state defendants .  by contrast , this exception would not apply to a product liability or insurance case .  the sale of a product to different people does not qualify as an event , and the alleged injuries in such a case would be spread out over more than one state or contiguous states even if all of the plaintiffs in a particular case came from one single state .  the third exception addresses a very narrow situation , specifically a law like the california unfair competition law , which allows individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the general public .  such a suit would not qualify as a mass action .  however , the vast majority of cases brought under other states ' consumer fraud laws which do not have a parallel provision could qualify as removable class actions .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , once again , critics of the legislation have it backwards .  this legislation will streamline jurisdictional inquiries by putting an end to all of the gaming that takes place under the current system , and the so-called delay refers to procedural rules that already exist under the current system .  under existing law , diversity of citizenship between the parties must exist , both at the time a complaint is filed and at the time a complaint is removed to federal court .  however , if the plaintiff files an amended complaint in state court that creates jurisdiction , or if subsequent events create jurisdiction , the defendant can then remove the case to federal court .  current law is also clear that once a complaint is properly removed to federal court , the federal court 's jurisdiction can not be ousted by later events .  thus , for example , changes in the amount of controversy after the complaint has been removed would not subject a lawsuit to be remanded to state court .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i always thought that federal judges protected the rights of everybody .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of the time .  mr. speaker , notwithstanding what we have heard from opponents of this legislation , its passage would not extinguish the legal right of any injured party , whether it be a class action , a mass action , or an individual lawsuit from proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction in the united states .  what the bill does do is it puts some sense into the class action system so that the members of the plaintiff 's class will be fairly and adequately compensated rather than seeing all of their gains go to attorneys and them just getting coupon settlements from the people who have allegedly done them wrong .  i was particularly perturbed listening to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  , who said that the kids who start smoking at 13 and 14 years old are going to be denied their day in court , and that the tobacco companies are going to end up cashing in on a big bonanza .  well , i had my staff , while this was going on , look at what has happened to altria , the parent company of philip morris .  since the other body passed this bill , altria stock has gone down by at least $ 1.50 , or 2 percent .  and today , the reuters story that came out less than an hour ago says that the dow has been dragged down by altria .  now , if this was the bonanza to investors in altria , the stock would not be going down .  it is not .  that is a fallacious argument .  reject the substitute and pass the bill .  mr. speaker , pursuant to the rule , i claim the time in opposition .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of s. 5 , the class action fairness act .  this legislation will work to balance class actions .  currently , plaintiffs ' lawyers take advantage of the system by bringing large , national lawsuits in specific jurisdictions with relaxed certification criteria .  attorneys are increasingly filing interstate class actions in state courts , mostly in what are known as `` magnet '' jurisdictions .  courts in these jurisdictions are attractive to lawyers because they routinely approve settlements in which attorneys receive large fees and the class members receive virtually nothing , and they also decide the claims of other state 's citizens under the court 's state law .  this results in more and more class actions being losing propositions for everyone involved -- except for the lawyers who brought them .  the class action fairness act works to improve our legal system by allowing larger interstate class action cases to be heard in federal courts , closing the magnet jurisdiction loophole .  this bill will also make it easier for local businesses to avoid harassment .  currently , plaintiffs ' lawyers can name a local business in a nationwide liability suit to stay out of federal court .  this legislation will put an end to this unfair practice .  finally , s. 5 protects consumers with a consumer class action bill of rights .  the bill of rights includes several provisions designed to ensure class members -- not their attorneys -- are the primary beneficiaries of the class action process , and are not simply awarded a coupon at the end of a trial .  allowing judges to limit attorney 's fees when the value of the settlement received by the class member is small in comparison and banning settlements that award some class members more simply because they live closer to the court will make class action suits more fair and help compensate the people who were wronged , not the attorney 's handling their case .  i strongly support s. 5 and encourage my colleagues to do so as well .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman of the committee on the judiciary for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , all americans should thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  and the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) for their leadership on this most important issue .  the class action fairness act is a bipartisan , sensible bill that clarifies the rights of consumers and restores confidence in america 's judicial system .  it reforms the class action system and addresses the abuses that harm so many americans .  we have all heard of the lawsuits in which plaintiffs walk away with pennies , sometimes literally , while the attorneys walk away with millions of dollars in fees .  this problem will be addressed by providing greater scrutiny over settlements that involve coupons or very small cash amounts .  this legislation also ensures that deserving plaintiffs are able to make full use of the class action system .  it allows easier removal of class action cases to federal courts .  this is important because class actions tend to affect numerous americans and often involve millions of dollars .  federal court is the right place for such large lawsuits .  moving more class actions to federal courts also prevents one of the worst problems in class actions today , forum shopping .  mr. speaker , while many concessions were made on both sides , this is still a very worthwhile bill that contains many good reforms , and i fully support it and look forward to its enactment into law and also encourage my colleagues to support it as well .  mr. speaker , i rise today to oppose this misguided legislation to limit the ability of average americans to seek redress for injury and harm caused by corporate malfeasance .  do n't be fooled by the title of this bill .  congress is not standing up for the average american under this bill .  it 's not fixing inequities in our judicial system .  it 's making those inequities worse by giving the upper hand to big corporations .  i wo n't vote for this republican-sponsored hoax .  it unfairly threatens the very people we are all elected to protect .  when the so-called party of local control makes it a top priority to move class action cases from state to federal court , there 's an ulterior motive .  do n't believe the myth my republican colleagues want to sell you .  class action suits are n't frivolous .  they allow average americans financially unable to launch a judicial battle on their own the means to seek redress for injury or death of a loved one .  they empower consumers to challenge wrongdoings by wealthy corporations who would otherwise ignore their appeal .  i do n't think that the american public would be satisfied knowing that if this bill passes , the accountability of companies like eron would be held less accountable .  and the makers of vioxx and other dangerous drugs would be held less accountable .  it is truthful , law-abiding citizens who will lose if this bill becomes law , apparently , in america today , we have government for , by , and of corporate interests and not the people .  i ask my colleagues to stand up for real people and vote against this shameful bill .  mr. speaker , the house has considered similar legislation in 1999 , 2002 , and 2003 .  on each of those occasions , i voted `` no '' -- not because i was unalterably opposed to congress acting on this subject , but because in my judgment the defects of those bills outweighed their potential benefits .  when it was announced that this bill would be considered , i hoped that the pattern would be broken and that this time i would be able to support the legislation .  and if the conyers substitute had been adopted , that would have been the case .  adoption of the substitute would have greatly improved the legislation .  it would have reaffirmed the authority and ability of each state 's attorney general to carry out his or her duties under state law .  it would have made sure that the bill would not prejudice people with complaints about violations of their civil rights .  it would have properly focused the legislation on class actions unrelated to personal injuries .  it would have added important protections for the public 's right to know about the proceedings in our courts .  and it would have made other changes that would have improved the bill .  unfortunately , the substitute was not adopted -- and i have come to the reluctant conclusion that i must vote against the bill .  that conclusion is reluctant because in several ways this bill is better -- or , more accurately , less bad -- than its predecessors .  unlike earlier versions , s. 5 would not have a retroactive effect , so it would not affect pending cases .  it also does not include a provision for immediate interlocutory appeals of denials of class action certification , or for a stay of all discovery while the appeal was pending .  and in several other ways , it differs for the better from previous versions .  however , while the bill is less bad , in my opinion it still is not good enough .  i remain unconvinced that the problem the bill purports to address is so great as to require such a sweeping remedy , and i am still concerned that in too many cases the side-effects of this treatment will be more severe than the disease .  mr. speaker , one of the most important rights we have as americans is the ability to seek redress from the courts when we believe our rights have been abridged or we have been improperly treated .  and , when a complaint arises under a state law , it is both appropriate and desirable that it be heard in state court because those are the most convenient and with the best understanding of state laws and local conditions .  of course , it is appropriate to provide for removing some state cases to federal courts .  but i think that should be more the exception than the rule , and i think this bill tends to reverse that .  i think it excessively tilts the balance between the states and the federal government so as to throw too many cases into already-overburdened federal courts -- with the predictable result that too many will be dismissed without adequate consideration of their merits .  so , while i respect those who have urged the house to pass this bill , i can not vote for it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 5 , the class action fairness act .  despite its name , this bill is anything but fair to the class action device that has provided redress to large numbers of american citizens who have been harmed by the same defendant or a group of defendants .  class action procedures have made it possible for injured americans to aggregate small claims that might not otherwise warrant the expense of individual litigation .  this bill before us will effectively undermine the utility , practicality , and choice the class action mechanism has offered to injured persons with legitimate claims against powerful entities .  there appear to be improvements in this bill from the bill we considered last congress ; yet there could and should be more improvements .  but the trend thus far this session is to dispense with regular order , deny committee consideration , and to leave members with 1 to 2 minutes to hurriedly voice our concerns .  i can guarantee my colleagues , having practiced law for over 20 years , that the core provisions of this bill will invite prolonged satellite litigation into ill-defined or undefined terms in this bill , clogging the federal courts and denying prompt justice to worthy claimants .  for example , where `` significant relief '' is sought against a home state defendant , the court has no jurisdiction .  what is significant and what is not significant ?  also , and worse in my judgment , no longer will a coherent description of the class be sufficient before the trial on the merit proceeds .  under the bill the judge must first know with certainty the absolute number of the plaintiff class , because whether he may or must decline to hear the case depends on whether a `` magic '' number of plaintiffs are citizens of the state where the lawsuit was filed .  there are other examples too complicated to address here in the time that we have available .  but let me just say that juxtaposed against the smattering of cases paraded by the supporters of this bill as justification for this upheaval in our justice system are countless class action lawsuits by principled attorneys and courageous plaintiffs that have exposed deliberate wrongdoing , obtained justice for american citizens , and vindicated the values of fair play and equal justice that define our society .  america is distinguished from other countries because of its legal system both criminal and civil .  is it perfect ?  no .  but the majority wages countless legislative assaults on the entire system rather than confined , deliberative , surgical repairs .  under this bill , one bad judge , we condemn all of the judges in the system .  one excessive jury award , let us overhaul the entire jury system .  one irresponsible lawyer , let us punish all lawyers .  and here let us take these actions without any committee hearings , markup , or debate .  what could be more irresponsible to our constituents ?  whatever happened to the notion that we were making our court systems convenient to people ?  in some of our states , the federal courts are far removed from the places where individual litigants live .  and what is it with the notion all of a sudden that my states rights friends believe that the federal courts and the federal government can solve every problem in our society ?  that is just simply absurd , inconsistent with any kind of consistent philosophy about federalism .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman very much for yielding me this additional time , and i am surprised that such an able lawyer would be unwilling to engage in a debate on his time , but i will take 30 seconds simply to rebut what the gentleman said .  in every one of those cases on the wheel of rhetoric that the gentleman put up , those that were found guilty , those who were found to be responsible , those who were found to be culpable of doing harmful things to our community admitted it , paid a fine , paid a penalty , that was approved by a judge , and that is the fact ; that the gentleman took cases of people who admitted with their actions there was wrongdoing involved .  and if they had not been caught by this system , i ask the gentleman , what system would they be caught by ?  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to the so-called `` class action fairness act. '' i have strong objections to not only to the text of the bill itself but also to the very process by which it was strong-armed by the republican leadership past the judiciary committee .  this process did not allow any opportunity for committee members to raise our objections or to work constructively to fix the major problems in this legislation .  this circumvention of regular order is being sold to us with a myriad of excuses , one of them is that the bill is a simple procedural fix for a judicial crisis with nothing controversial in it .  nothing could be further from the truth .  this bill is a federal mandate to undermine and all but kill the ability to raise class actions cases in state courts .  under this so-called `` procedural bill , '' almost every class action lawsuit would be removed from state jurisdiction and forced onto an already overburdened federal judiciary .  moving these cases to federal court will make litigation more costly , more time-consuming and less likely that victims can get their rightful day in court at all .  this bill is so preposterously far-reaching it would prevent state courts from considering class action cases that only involve state laws .  we have already added so many state cases to federal jurisdiction that if this bill passes victims will be added to the substantial backlog of federal cases and will likely find it difficult to ever have their cases heard .  it should be obvious to even the most casual observer that the intent of this bill is to prevent class action lawsuits from ever being heard .  members should make no mistake about it -- if we pass this misguided legislation , we will have effectively shut the door on civil rights , on workers rights and on anyone injured through corporate negligence .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing one of the most destructive and far reaching civil justice measures ever considered by this body .  mr. speaker , not too long ago , our nation 's courts were a place where americans were able to seek justice .  today , however , the system has become a playground for personal injury trial lawyers as they file sham , abusive cases in lawsuit-friendly counties .  and all too often the attorneys collect multimillion-dollar settlements for themselves , while their clients , the real victims , get left with nothing more than a coupon , often worth nothing more than the paper upon which it is printed .  recently , a large national video rental chain , after being named in 23 class-action lawsuits , agreed to provide consumers in the lawsuit with dollar coupons , and attorneys in this case received over $ 9 million .  even more outrageous is the case where consumers were awarded 33 cents each in a settlement with a well-known national bank , not even enough to buy a stamp , while attorneys in the case walked away with $ 4 million .  mr. speaker , this amount of money distorts the incentives for personal injury lawyers .  they no longer represent their clients ; they become coplaintiffs .  it is past time we did something about it .  that is why we should return commonsense justice to the american people by passing s. 5 , the class action fairness act .  mr. speaker , i rise today to support the rule and the underlying legislation ; and i want to thank my colleague from georgia for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , we have all received the class action settlement notices in our mail boxes , i know i have , not even realizing we were part of a class action lawsuit nor ever asking to be part of the lawsuit .  and not only that , but you never get to meet this attorney who will represent you .  as consumers , we need to know that we will eventually bear the cost of these companies that have to settle large class actions because it is easier to settle than to try to litigate against the trial lawyers .  earlier this week , the georgia general assembly moved forward with major legislation to reform the legal system , something i fought for during my time there .  this legislation continues that effort and takes a huge step forward to protect consumers by limiting these huge interstate class action lawsuits .  mr. speaker , federal courts have had jurisdiction over substantial cases between citizens of different states since the founding of this nation .  but due to the interpretations of the laws , state courts have had to bear the brunt of class action lawsuits in this country .  this legislation is a fantastic bipartisan effort to reform the legal system and is a good first step toward addressing the costs of litigation on small businesses , large businesses , and all americans .  i encourage my colleagues to support this effort ; and i appreciate the leadership shown by the speaker , the majority leader , and the chairman of the committee on the judiciary towards getting this legislation passed through the senate and on the desk of the president .  i urge my colleagues to support this measure , the rule and the legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  first , i must comment on the gentleman 's remarks that if things were so good , then why is it that we have parents of children with special needs decrying these budgets ?  why is it that we have firefighters coming to us decrying this budget ?  why are we seeing so many people saying that we have our priorities in the wrong place ?  certainly we should look at this budget resolution because it should be defeated .  even though social security privatization is the president 's number one priority , this republican budget resolution hides the cost of the harmful effects of social security privatization .  it refuses to include any details on the president 's privatization plan and it further continues to spend every single cent of the social security surplus reserve on things other than social security .  that means over the next 10 years under this budget that we have before us , $ 2.6 trillion of worker contributions that are supposed to be dedicated to social security will be spent on something other than social security .  like what ?  to pay for these tax cuts that are going principally to the wealthiest americans in this country .  even with that being done , using all the social security surplus moneys , we still have deficits never seen before in this country .  this year alone we will have the biggest deficit this country has ever seen , more than $ 400 billion .  that is more than $ 1 , 000 on the head of each and every man and woman in this country .  they are gleeful .  they believe that that is what we should do .  mr. speaker , many of us believe that we should have a plan as the salazar legislation would propose that we save every single cent of the social security surplus which this year alone the surplus in social security contributions that will not be needed to spend for benefits to social security recipients will equal $ 169 billion .  we can start by saying that $ 169 billion of social security moneys will not be spent , because this budget spends every single cent of the $ 169 billion coming in this year for social security on something other than social security .  that is why so many americans are so insecure about social security and insecure about what the president proposes to do about social security .  not more than 2 hours ago , one of the president 's cabinet secretaries , secretary elaine chao of the department of labor , said before the committee , social security is not guaranteed .  i asked the secretary , `` can you clarify ?  do you mean in the future perhaps if we do n't do something to make it stronger , it wo n't be guaranteed ?  `` she just continued to say , `` it is not guaranteed. '' that is why people today feel so insecure about what the president is proposing , especially with privatization , because he will not tell us what it will cost .  we know it could end up costing some 46 percent in benefit cuts if we privatize .  we also know that it would require massive government borrowing , some $ 5 trillion over the next 20 years , if you try to privatize the system .  where does all that money come from ?  mr. speaker , the reason people are so insecure about social security is not because the system is not there for them , it is because we have leaders talking about changing it without giving us the facts .  mr. speaker , it is time for us in our budget documents to speak to the people , to give them the facts .  this budget resolution does not do it .  we should defeat it .  mr. speaker , the outsourcing of good-paying american jobs to other countries is a crisis that touches every community in the united states .  up to half a million jobs have been outsourced over the past 3 years to countries like china , india , and mexico .  this at a time when there are 8 million americans out of work .  americans now understand that outsourcing negatively impacts every segment of our economy .  not only have 2.7 million jobs been lost in our once-vibrant manufacturing sector since the beginning of this administration but white collar jobs are being offshored as well .  according to one report , 181 , 000 computer jobs will be moved offshore by the end of 2005 .  last year , state and local governments outsourced $ 10 billion of public projects .  what we are witnessing today is a full-scale erosion of the american workforce , with millions seeking skills to improve their current employment situation .  this bill undermines our job training system and our economy alike .  this motion seeks to provide assistance to veterans , provide workers who lost their jobs to outsourcing with job training assistance , allowances to relocate to where they can find work and other forms of income support .  this bill destroys the functioning elements of our job training system .  it does not , quote , improve our delivery of these vital services for unemployed americans .  i urge my colleagues to support this motion to recommit .  mr. chairman , i rise today to voice my opposition to this job training improvement act because it does nothing to improve job training in our country .  congress has an opportunity to take the reauthorization of the workforce investment act and address the needs of millions of unemployed americans .  instead , we are presented with a proposal that reduces the impact of job training programs by cutting funding to traditional job training providers such as the veteran 's employment programs and perkins vocational education programs .  this bill also consolidates the adult , dislocated worker and employment service programs and their funding while repealing the wagner peyser act .  wager peyser established the federal performance and accountability standards that ensure our job training programs are quality programs that place able workers in appropriate positions in the workforce .  furthermore , this bill would allow federally funded job training organizations to question a candidate about their religious beliefs .  i 've been a christian all my life .  however , i do not feel it is the place of the federal government or anyone receiving federal funds to question a job candidate about their religious beliefs .  at this time , congress needs to place more resources into workforce training , not reduce job training programs that are successful .  the houston area continues to have an unemployment rate higher than the national average , as does the state of texas .  this bill will slow down the ability of those who need workforce training from getting it , and right now this economy needs all the help it can get .  h.r. 27 is bad public policy and will further slow our efforts to strengthen our economy .  mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. evans )  .  mr .  evans .  mr. speaker , h.r. 27 , the administration 's job training reauthorization bill , would , among other misguided actions , harm veterans ' employment programs and critical vocational rehabilitation services .  specifically , this bill would permit states to siphon off federal resources from already underfunded veterans ' employment programs that operate under state `` one-stop '' centers .  veterans and disabled job seekers do not deserve this .  mr. speaker , in the 107th congress , we passed in a bipartisan manner the jobs for veterans act , legislation to reorganize , update , and improve these very same veterans ' employment and training programs .  now is not the time for this bipartisan effort to be unraveled .  while our troops are actively engaged in iraq and afghanistan and many others suffering from severe injuries and permanent disabilities , now is not the time to reduce the resources for these critical job training programs .  indeed , we need to give these programs the chance to be effective .  mr. speaker , i understand that states are facing tremendous fiscal challenges due to the harsh economic times , but clearly taking resources from one chronologically underfunded program is not the answer .  the responsible thing for the administration to do , the right thing , would be to adequately support job seekers , especially disabled veterans , as well as to assist the states with infrastructure costs .  mr. speaker , this legislation is not responsible and permits already modest resources intended for the nation 's disabled veterans , all who have served our country , to be further diminished .  i oppose this legislation and urge a `` no '' vote on the underlying legislation .  and as a former marine , i have benefitted from many programs that help veterans with education and training .  as a continuation of those efforts , we must not let these people fall through the cracks that we have in our employment laws .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , the chairman is correct .  the department already collects this data and would be able to highlight this information in its annual report to congress with very little additional work .  it is simply a matter of clearly communicating to the department that we would like to see focused information on high school-aged students in adult education reported by race , ethnicity , language proficiency , and program enrollment .  i thank the chairman for continuing to work with me and the department to bring this critical information to the forefront .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman from ohio ( chairman boehner ) for his comments .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 27 , the reauthorization of the workforce investment act .  the workforce investment act was one of these pieces of legislation that actually helps people .  it was passed back in 1998 .  unfortunately , this is a step backward as it comes before us today .  the bill now here would create block grants to fund the adult dislocated worker and employment service programs .  and as we know , funding through nearly every past block grant program has led to decreases in funding in just about every education or labor program that was block granted .  in addition , the proposal here would reduce and restrict services for in-school youths .  it would fund one-stop infrastructure by siphoning off funds used to serve veterans and individuals with disabilities ; and importantly , the legislation before us here would allow discrimination in hiring based on individuals 's religious beliefs .  under current religious law , organizations are free to make employment decisions using religious criteria with their own money .  why should we allow organizations to discriminate with taxpayer dollars ?  it really would roll back 40 years of civil rights laws and decades of job training laws as we have heard here today .  the workforce investment act was intended to be about helping hard working americans find jobs and help those who have a job receive training to improve their employment prospects .  this is , i repeat , the kind of legislation that could actually help people .  these one-stop centers have been a success .  but this legislation does not provide adequate authorized funding for them and it changes many of the good features that have been part of the workforce investment act .  we could be closing the skills gap , but unfortunately , the bill does not do that .  it is a step backward from the legislation that was passed in 1998 .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this bill .  this bill is nearly identical to the wia bill that passed this house last congress on a near party-line vote .  it was a bad bill then , and it remains a bad bill now .  h.r. 27 represents a missed opportunity to ensure that more , not less , job training happens for the millions who are unemployed or looking to upgrade their skills .  this legislation fails to increase the amount of actual training services that will be provided to unemployed , dislocated , and underemployed workers .  instead , this legislation focuses on moving around and changing the bureaucratic elements of wia without focusing on getting more resources to the consumers of these programs .  h.r. 27 is largely the same proposal backed by the administration for the past 2 years .  just a few weeks ago , president bush spoke to individuals in omaha , nebraska .  there he met a woman in her late 50s who is a mother of three children .  she told him that presently she was working three jobs to ensure she could provide for her family .  the president 's response was the following , and i quote exactly : `` uniquely american , is n't it ?  i mean , that is fantastic that you 're doing that. '' what insensitivity .  is this the attitude of this administration when it comes to the challenges of working adults and families ?  i think this quote from the president speaks for itself .  it will go down in history with marie antoinette 's famous quote : `` let them eat cake. '' mr. chairman , this bill is not going to help this mother of three or the millions of americans seeking job training .  this bill is objectionable for four primary reasons .  first , the bill block-grants the adult worker , dislocated worker , and employment service program .  this effectively repeals the wagner-peyser act and the employment service , the national program used to match job seekers with employment opportunities .  termination of the employment service will translate into higher unemployment and less jobs .  the elimination of the employment service and wagner-peyser marks another example of the republican majority terminating a new deal program .  wagner-peyser was first enacted in june of 1933 in the first term of president franklin delano roosevelt .  it is shameful that we are eliminating a 70-year-old program that has helped so many achieve and maintain work .  in my hometown of flint , michigan , we had two parts of the unemployment office , one where you applied for the unemployment benefits and the other where you went in and were seeking a job and they would put the unemployed and an employer together .  that would be decimated by this bill .  second , h.r. 27 allows governors to siphon off resources currently providing veterans , adult learners , and individuals with disabilities with critical services .  instead of helping vulnerable and needy individuals , these resources would fund infrastructure costs of the one-stop centers .  many of these individuals have nowhere else to turn to receive help , and this bill would exacerbate this problem .  h.r. 27 requires programs which provide these critical services to give up resources , but it also takes away any say over how they are allocated or used .  they no longer will have a voice on the local boards .  we should not be taking funds from these programs .  these lost resources will translate into disruptions and lost opportunities to people who presently rely on these services .  we should provide a separate source of funding for these one-stop centers .  third , the bill allows discrimination in hiring based on religion with wia funds .  the bill turns back the clock on decades of civil rights protections in our job training programs .  this is simply wrong .  focus hope in detroit , michigan , is one of the best , if not the best , job training program in the state of michigan .  focus hope was run until his death by father william cunningham , a classmate of mine in the seminary .  he trained thousands of people in inner-city detroit as a catholic priest assigned by his bishop there , and he did not care whether those who were training people to run a lathe , to do engineering or whatever it was , he did not care whether they were catholic , whether they were protestant , whether they were morman , muslim or had no faith at all .  all he cared was they knew how finally , mr. chairman , h.r. 27 creates personal reemployment accounts which voucherize the job training system and cuts individuals off from other training services .  the money they do not spend to get a job , they can keep and use for any purpose .  workers do not need a bribe to get back to work .  research on similar schemes have proven that pras are not an effective means of providing job training .  mr. chairman , this bill does not respond to the needs of underemployed and unemployed individuals .  it misses an opportunity to improve our job training system .  i urge members to join me in opposing passage of this legislation .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from washington , d.c .  ( ms. norton )  .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in summary , i urge a no vote on this bill .  in 1998 , the gentleman from california ( mr. mckeon )  who is a very good friend of mine , we will always remain friends , we have great respect for one another , we wrote a very good bill in 1998 , wia , and i hope we would do likewise this time ; but i find myself unable to support this bill .  the bill , among other things , i do not mean to be harsh , but among other things , encapsulates president bush 's response to the woman in omaha who told him that she was presently working three jobs to ensure that she could provide for her family .  and the president responded , `` uniquely american , is n't it ?  i mean , that is fantastic that you 're doing that. '' mr. chairman , we can do better than that .  yes , i am , mr. speaker , in its current form .  mr. speaker , i urge support for this motion which will address a very urgent problem .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the chairman for agreeing to work with us on this issue of importance to new york .  mr. chairman , the question is when is the congress going to stop letting american businesses and workers down ?  it is time to roll up our sleeves and chart a path to economic freedom .  it is time to govern .  today the republicans again ask us to consider a bill with provisions that will make its mark by missing the mark .  it inflates government bureaucracy and deflates workers ' opportunity .  american business needs the best , most qualified workers on earth , but this bill does nothing to reach that goal .  workers , especially the working poor , need a credible realistic road to economic freedom .  this bill is a dead end .  our workforce is in trouble .  the `` l.a .  times , '' which i will enter into the record an article from the `` l.a .  times , '' recently reported that the volatility of income for the working poor has doubled in recent years .  income among the working poor now fluctuates by as much as 50 percent annually .  one can not buy a home with a wild fluctuation like that .  one can not plan for their children 's college education with income swings like that , and they are lucky to put food on the table .  mr. chairman , we need to rethink the systems we have in place to help workers and employers maximize productivity and profitability .  we continue to pursue open trade to open our domestic market to foreign competition , but we are not employing the same vigor toward pursuing the means to ensure that our workforce can compete and be the best trained and equipped in the world .  this issue , investing in our workforce , transcends social and economic status .  i represent the 7th district of washington , seattle , where the economy is driven by manufacturing as well as by innovation and the service industry .  everyone in these industries is competing for their jobs against someone overseas .  making the proper investments and systems to helping the working poor obtain access to job training and education is even more important .  the so-called personal reemployment accounts compel , compel , unemployed workers to take the first job they can get and forego current job training opportunities .  instead of economic independence , this bill produces economic surrender .  we can do better .  we ought to significantly invest in continuing education training programs for people in industries that are challenged by global competition .  furthermore , we ought to seriously consider wage insurance .  this would enable the working poor to move into jobs that may begin by paying a little less but have greater opportunities for wage growth and economic stability down the road .  this bill , even without the bad provisions such as personal reemployment accounts and the provisions that allow workplace discrimination based on religion , does nothing to meet the new challenges that workers and businesses that rely on them face in the new global economy .  the question again , mr. chairman , is when will you tell your chairman to start taking these responsibilities seriously rather than playing politics , as we are here today , putting the same bill before us that we have put here before , we know it is not going anywhere , it is a waste of time , and it does nothing for the workers ?  this is not even an election year .  the poor have more things today -- including wild income swings `` the poor are not like everyone else , '' social critic michael harrington wrote in the 1962 bestseller `` the other america , '' which helped shape president johnson 's war on poverty .  `` they are a different kind of people , '' he declared .  `` they think and feel differently ; they look upon a different america than the middle class. '' how then to account for elvira rojas ?  the 36-year-old salvadoran-born dishwasher and her partner , warehouse worker jose maldanado , make barely enough to stay above the official poverty line -- $ 18 , 810 last year for a family of four .  but by working two , sometimes three , jobs between them , they are grabbing at middle-class dreams .  rojas and maldanado live in a two-room apartment in hawthorne but have china settings for 16 tucked in a wooden hutch .  their two young daughters receive health coverage through medi-cal but get many of their clothes at robinsons-may .  the family struggles to meet its monthly bills but has taken on a mountain of credit card debt .  they have used plastic to buy a large-screen tv and other luxuries but have also relied on it to cover bare necessities such as rent and emergency-room visits .  `` that 's why i 'm really poor even though i work so hard , '' rojas said with a rueful laugh .  some see circumstances like rojas ' as testament to the economic strides that america has made over the last generation , rather than a reflection of its failures .  `` we 've won the war on poverty , '' asserted robert rector , an influential analyst with the heritage foundation , a conservative washington think tank .  `` we 've basically eliminated widespread material deprivation. '' but if deprivation is no longer as big a problem , that hardly means all is well .  in many ways , rojas is the new face of the working poor , suffering not so much from a dearth of possessions as from a cavalcade of chaos -- pay cuts and eviction notices , car troubles and medical crises -- that rattles her finances and nudges her family toward the economic brink .  in this way , rojas and millions like her are not -- as harrington described them -- fundamentally different from most other americans ; they are remarkably similar .  indeed , today 's working poor are experiencing an extreme version of the economic turbulence that is rocking families across the income spectrum .  and the cause , no matter people 's means , is the same : a quarter- century-long shift of economic risk by business and government onto working families .  protections that americans , especially poor ones , once relied on to buffer them from economic setbacks -- affordable housing , stable jobs with good benefits , union membership and the backstop of cash welfare -- have shriveled or been eliminated .  these losses have been only partially offset by an expansion of programs such as the earned-income tax credit for the working poor and publicly provided healthcare .  for the most part , the poor have been left to cope on their own , scrambling from one fragile employment arrangement to the next , doubling up on housing and borrowing heavily .  `` families up and down the income distribution are bearing more economic risk than they did 25 or 30 years ago , '' said johns hopkins university economist robert a. moffitt .  `` but the increase has been especially dramatic among the working poor. '' as a result , their earnings are jumping around like never before .  during the early 1970s , the inflation-adjusted incomes of most families in the bottom fifth of the economy bounced up and down no more than 25 % a year .  by the beginning of this decade , those annual fluctuations had doubled to as much as 50 % , according to statistics generated by the los angeles times in conjunction with moffitt and researchers at several other major universities .  for a family with an income at the 20th percentile -- or roughly $ 23 , 000 a year in inflation-adjusted terms -- that has meant recent annual swings of as much as $ 12 , 000 .  twenty-five years ago , those swings tended to be no more than $ 4 , 300 .  the times ' figures are based on the panel study of income dynamics , a database funded by the national science foundation and run by the university of michigan .  in contrast to most economic indicators , which involve taking random samples of different americans at different times and comparing the results , the panel study has followed the same 5 , 000 nationally representative families and their offshoots for nearly 40 years .  in supplementing conventional statistics with the panel-study data , the newspaper has sought to explain why americans in rising numbers report being less financially secure , even as the nation has grown richer overall .  in a nutshell , the times has found that behind the upward march of most economic averages are increasingly frequent instances of financial setback and hardship for a large swath of the population .  even those in the top-10 percent bracket -- making well over $ 100 , 000 a year -- have seen their incomes grow more volatile and therefore prone to steep dives .  but for the country 's 20 million working-poor families , the findings are particularly sobering : they now run the risk of seeing their incomes slashed by half in any given year .  that 's almost double the volatility experienced by families in the middle of the economic spectrum , the newspaper 's findings show .  `` the only way to improve your life if you 're poor is to be very prudent and make very , very few mistakes like getting fired or splurging and ending up with a lot of debt , '' said christopher jencks , a harvard university authority on poverty .  `` most people are n't that prudent. '' elvira rojas headed for the u.s. at age 21 in search of two things that were in short supply in her native ei salvador : peace and prosperity .  combatants in that country 's bloody civil war engaged in firefights outside her family 's home in acajutla , and maldanado had received death threats because of his role as a former military man .  in addition , rojas discovered that the only job she could get with her high school diploma from el instituto nacional was at the local fish-packing plant .  the pair arrived in l.a .  in may 1989 .  she quickly found work cleaning houses with two of maldanado 's aunts .  he landed a job at a hawthorne dry-cleaning plant .  between them , they made about $ 200 a week .  but with the average rent on a one-bedroom apartment in the city then running about $ 600 , they could not afford a first foothold in their new country -- a place of their own to live .  `` i felt bad in the beginning because i had nothing , '' rojas said .  `` i wanted to go home. '' with nowhere else to turn , they moved in with one of maldanado 's aunts , her five children and four cousins in a two-bedroom house on firmona avenue in hawthorne .  they slept on the kitchen floor .  as the couple began to make more money , they moved into a succession of other apartments .  each was a little larger than the last but still crammed with relatives .  rojas and maldanado had few alternatives .  during their first years , they were effectively excluded from federal rent subsidies or state help because they were illegal immigrants .  in 1991 , the two gained legal status under a program that allowed people fleeing war in their homelands to be counted as refugees .  but their new standing was thrown into question in 1994 , when california voters approved proposition 187 .  the initiative was designed to cut off state assistance to undocumented immigrants , but many legal ones interpreted the measure as a blanket ban aimed at them too .  rojas , for one , took no chances ; she never applied for housing assistance -- or almost any other kind of aid -- although it appears from her social security records and tax returns that she would have qualified .  `` i did n't want to be a burden on the government , '' she explained .  it 's probably just as well .  by the mid-1990s , the state and federal governments were winding down most of a six-decade-long drive to help poor families meet their housing needs .  that effort had begun under president franklin d. roosevelt , who decried the conditions gripping america .  `` i see one-third of a nation ill-housed , ill-clad , ill-nourished , '' he said in 1937 .  in the years that followed , a booming private sector largely solved the food and clothing problems .  and a combination of financial market innovations and federal power applied through a battery of agencies -- the veterans administration , the federal housing administration , fannie mae and freddie mac -- greatly expanded home ownership , especially among the middle class .  but that still left what to do for poor families , most of whom could afford only to rent .  washington 's first answer was to have the government build and run housing projects .  some worked .  but many degenerated into vertical ghettos , victimized by disastrous design , racial and economic segregation , drugs and crime .  in 1974 , president nixon and congress turned to another solution : the section 8 program .  instead of putting up buildings itself , the government would subsidize private developers to construct housing and give poor families vouchers to rent apartments in the open market .  but developer subsidies produced cost overruns and political scandals in the 1980s and were largely phased out .  that left only the vouchers , which recently have been cut back .  in all , the amount of money that congress and the president have authorized to be spent on housing assistance has plunged by nearly two-thirds in the last 25 years , from an inflation-adjusted $ 82 billion in 1978 to $ 29 billion last year .  washington 's latest answer has been more laissez-faire : offer tax breaks for the creation of low-income housing but otherwise leave it to the marketplace to decide how much gets built .  in hot housing markets such as southern california 's , little has .  `` we 've produced tens of thousands of units recently , but the well 's been dry for so long we should have been producing hundreds of thousands , '' said jan breidenbach , executive director of the southern california assn .  of non-profit housing , which represents many of the region 's developers of low-income housing .  in the absence of substantial government help -- and with housing prices soaring beyond the reach of even the middle class -- most working-poor families have been left to fend for themselves .  by 1997 , rojas and maldanado thought they had succeeded in doing that .  he was making $ 5 , 800 a year at the dry-cleaning plant .  she was making more than $ 12 , 000 dashing between a part-time job at an airline linen service on prairie avenue in hawthorne and a temporary position with kelly services , packing magazines , perfume and shampoo in samplers for direct-market mailings .  in the fall of that year , the couple , with another of maldanado 's aunts and her children , moved into a white stucco bungalow on burin avenue in inglewood , not far from los angeles international airport .  although the house sagged in the middle and had drainage problems , it featured two kitchens and two living rooms , plenty of space for each family .  the place cost rojas and maldanado $ 550 a month .  that was more than 30 % of their earnings , a level the government considers the outer limit of affordable , but it was still something they could bear .  the bungalow `` felt good because there were not so many of us , '' rojas said .  `` it was the most room i 've ever had. '' the following year , the two families celebrated christmas by stringing sparkling lights along the structure 's faded blue eaves and inviting neighbors for a party .  albert grimes arrived in los angeles a few years before elvira rojas did , similarly hungry to start over .  he came from cleveland , where his family was a pillar of the african american community .  his father , `` big joe '' grimes , had returned home from world war ii and used the gi bill to buy a house .  he opened a barbershop , founded a youth marching band called b.j. 's raiders and became a kingmaker of sorts in cleveland politics .  albert 's uncle , walter dicks , ran the municipal workers union and helped the younger grimes find a job right out of high school on a city sanitation truck .  it paid about $ 15 , 000 , equal to about $ 30 , 000 in today 's dollars .  but albert was laid off during one of cleveland 's periodic fiscal crises .  in 1985 , at the age of 29 , he left home and headed west .  he had no trouble finding work with one of los angeles ' big employers .  for most of the postwar era , working americans could count on big business even more than big government to provide safeguards against economic risk .  in a reverse of the current passion for temps , outsourcing and lean workforces , corporate america felt it had a civic duty to offer full-time jobs with good wages and solid benefits , even to those like grimes with no college education .  `` steady , year-round employment is so right from the standpoint of the employer , so right from the standpoint of the workers and so right for the country as a whole ... ..  that it is hard to see why we manufacturers have not made more progress in its application , '' procter & amp ; gamble co .  president richard deupree told a 1948 audience .  as the decades passed , los angeles became the hub of the nation 's aerospace industry ; a second home to u.s. automakers , after detroit ; and a major financial center .  among the region 's largest employers : lockheed corp. , mcdonnell douglas corp. , general motors corp. , goodyear tire & amp ; rubber co. , first interstate bank and security pacific bank .  by the late 1970s , the typical l.a .  county workplace had nearly 30 % more employees than the u.s. average , according to government statistics -- a situation that translated into a high level of economic security .  `` there is a close correlation between firm size , employment stability and generous compensation , '' said ucla economist sanford jacoby , who has written extensively about the new risks that working people face .  `` big firms underwrote the creation of america 's -- and southern california 's -- blue-collar middle class. '' as for grimes , he found his way to sears , roebuck & amp ; co. 's massive warehouse at olympic boulevard and soto street , where he was hired as a merchandise handler represented by the teamsters .  he did well for himself there .  his social security records show that his income rose steadily -- from $ 12 , 000 in 1987 to $ 20 , 000 in 1990 ( or nearly $ 28 , 000 in today 's terms ) .  on top of that , his health care was covered .  but in 1992 , sears stumbled , the result of a failed strategy to sell everything from socks to stocks .  grimes , then on leave with a bad back , soon found himself out of a job .  it was a particularly bad time to be without work .  the combination of recession and steep cuts in defense spending , brought on by the end of the cold war , walloped southern california .  unremitting pressure from low-cost foreign producers and wage competition from new immigrants such as rojas took a severe toll on unskilled workers like grimes .  any chance that he would be rehired by sears soon evaporated when the company 's warehouse and adjacent store were damaged in the l.a .  riots .  the warehouse was eventually shuttered .  by the time the region bounced back , the nature of employment had changed .  gone were many of the corporate giants that had delivered a generation of blue-collar security .  in their place were tens of thousands of relatively small employers whose job-generating capacity is now regularly praised by the nation 's leaders but whose instability , often-low wages and meager benefits are less remarked upon .  government figures show that the average size of a workplace shrank by 18 % nationally between its late-1970s peak and last year .  the slide was even steeper in l.a .  county , with the average size of a workplace plunging 50 % to 10 workers .  this trend , according to jacoby , `` is one of the most important and least appreciated reasons why so many people are having a tough time making a go of it today. '' for several years , grimes all but vanished from the regular economy .  he , his chronically ill girlfriend and the couple 's young son lived off a mix of workers ' compensation , disability payments and her welfare checks .  in 1995 , he resurfaced , this time as a security guard and -- befitting the u.s. economy 's free-market transformation -- a self-employed entrepreneur .  `` i set myself up as a corporation , '' he said proudly .  with the help of a friend , grimes persuaded a string of businesses in a run-down neighborhood along bixel street near downtown to hire him .  for three years , he watched over a dental office , a parking garage , a liquor store and a methadone clinic .  his earnings climbed from $ 5 , 600 when he launched his venture to more than $ 27 , 000 two years later .  he bought himself a used pontiac grand am , a washer and dryer and a rent-a-center living room set .  then in 1998 , he found out how risky the life of an entrepreneur can be : the city bought up the properties along bixel street to make way for the staples center .  the businesses that employed grimes closed .  demolition crews flattened the buildings and , along with them , grimes ' income .  his earnings that year went clear to zero .  as grimes ' world caved in on him once more , rojas ' prospects were looking up .  she was still shuttling between her jobs at the airline laundry service and as a packer of sundries when one of maldanado 's cousins told her that the dishwashing department at the wyndham hotel on century boulevard near lax was hiring for the 4-to-midnight shift .  the full-time position paid more than $ 7 an hour and , because the workers were represented by hotel employees and restaurant employees local 814 , it came with holidays and family health insurance .  the latter would prove particularly important when rojas suffered a miscarriage in 2001 , and her health plan picked up the tab for more than $ 5 , 000 .  rojas saw the job as a turning point .  until then , virtually everything she had in her life had belonged to her in-laws .  `` if we used dishes , '' she remembered , `` they were theirs .  if we watched tv , it was theirs. '' but all that would change when she went to the wyndham .  `` i knew at that point i would have my own things , '' she said .  by 1998 , as rojas and maldanado 's income more than doubled to $ 26 , 000 ( $ 30 , 500 in today 's dollars ) , the couple began assembling the pieces of a middle-class life .  rojas bought china by royal prestige .  she purchased a hutch from levitz furniture in which to display the dishes .  she and maldanado acquired a couch , a bed and a dining table .  they shelled out for two large-screen tvs and signed up for satellite-dish service .  they bought a 1987 plymouth sundance to go with their aging blue toyota camry .  and they traveled .  `` we would go to las vegas and disneyland , '' maldanado recalled .  `` we had more money to spend. '' when the first of the couple 's two daughters was born the following year , rojas was so eager for her to be part of the fabric of america that she resisted entreaties to name her maria after five of maldanado 's aunts , and instead gave her the name katherine .  she would make a similar choice when their second child was born last may , rejecting maldanado 's suggestion of elvira in favor of melane .  the new job let rojas dream about owning a house where , she said , `` my daughters can have their own rooms '' and `` maybe one day i can take care of my grandchildren if i have some. '' meanwhile , any thought of returning to central america faded away .  `` here , '' said rojas , `` my family will go a lot farther than in el salvador. '' in the summer of 2000 , the wyndham 's owners announced that they were closing the hotel for renovations .  rojas remembers hearing ominous rumblings that more would change than the color of the lobby -- something about the parking attendants ' jobs being contracted out .  but she was not worried .  to tide her over during the shutdown , local 814 had steered her to a job at a unionized burger king at lax .  the fast-food outlet offered a wage-and-benefit package almost as good as what she was making at the wyndham .  about a year after it had closed , the hotel on century boulevard reopened .  only now , the sign outside read `` radisson. '' the wyndham name was n't the only thing that was gone either .  so too was the union -- part of a broader trend sweeping corporate america for more than two decades .  unions , which represented 17 percent of the nation 's private-sector workforce in the early 1980s , counted only 8 percent as members by last year .  rojas could have her dishwashing job back .  but instead of $ 8.89 an hour , her top wage at the wyndham , she said , she 'd be pulling down only $ 7.50 at the radisson , with no employer-paid family health insurance .  she signed on anyway and , to make ends meet , kept her job at burger king as well .  it was hard running between two jobs again , but the family 's income finally seemed to be stabilizing .  as it turned out , their financial roller-coaster ride had only just begun .  for the poor , the most dramatic of all the safety-net cuts that the government has engineered in the last 25 years came in 1996 .  that 's when a republican-controlled congress passed and president clinton signed the personal responsibility and work opportunity reconciliation act , overhauling the nation 's cash welfare system .  the law sought to push people off the dole and into work .  in doing so , it essentially reversed the poverty-fighting strategy that washington had pursued since the 1960s in which poor americans were promised a certain minimal standard of living .  by last year , the law had reduced the nation 's welfare rolls by 3 million families , or one-half , and had sliced inflation -- adjusted welfare spending by about $ 10 billion , or one-third .  these numbers , though , are about all the experts can agree on .  advocates have hailed the measure as a spectacular success , saying it has increased the incomes of many poor people while triggering a steep drop in poverty among black children .  critics have denounced it as a failure , saying that many people are poorer today than they were before the law was changed .  for its part , grimes ' household has remained largely unaffected by the law 's `` work first '' requirements .  that 's because california has maintained relatively generous benefits and because grimes ' domestic partner , jacqueline harvey , has a chronic intestinal disease and is exempt from work requirements .  she has thus continued to collect benefits off and on from the state 's cash welfare program , calworks .  she now receives $ 583 a month .  but grimes , in the meantime , has been staggered by another , lesser-known element of the 1996 act -- a significant toughening of child-support enforcement rules .  this part of the law built on other efforts undertaken since the 1970s to go after absentee parents and compel them to help finance their kids ' upbringings .  grimes and harvey 's son , albert jr. , was born in 1988 .  nine years later , when the elder grimes applied for custody of a nephew , the los angeles county district attorney 's office sued him for child support for albert jr .  the d.a .  took action even though grimes , harvey and their son had always lived together and , they and several relatives say , grimes always helped raise the boy .  nonetheless , grimes declined to challenge the county , which won a court judgment against him .  grimes said he thought that he had to go along with the support order to obtain custody of his nephew and to ensure that harvey would continue receiving publicly funded healthcare .  it 's also unclear whether counting grimes as a parent in the house would have jeopardized the size of harvey 's welfare checks .  whether a mix-up or not , the effect on grimes ' finances has been devastating .  california courts not only have imposed high monthly support payments -- often unrelated to a parent 's ability to comply -- but also have added interest at a 10 percent annual clip to past-due amounts .  a recent study commissioned by the state found that past-due child-support payments in california have soared to almost $ 17 billion from $ 2.5 billion in the last decade .  most of that money , moreover , is earmarked for state coffers -- not for the children who need support .  `` the system was largely about welfare-cost recovery , not helping families , '' said curtis l. child , who stepped down recently as head of the state department of child support services , which was created in 2000 to remove enforcement power from county district attorneys and restructure the system .  `` in imposing these huge judgments on fathers , we 're confronting these men with an awful choice : go underground , which is just what child-support enforcement was intended to stop , or let themselves be financially ruined. '' in august 1997 , grimes was ordered to start sending the county $ 173 a month in current payments , plus an additional amount for past-due support totaling $ 4 , 900 .  when he fell behind after his bixel street business collapsed in 1998 , the past-due total began to swell .  it now tops $ 8 , 000 .  in one great clap , the 9/11 terrorists brought down the twin towers in new york , shattered americans ' sense of security and shoved elvira rojas down the economic ladder .  it took her five days to reach burger king after the police and military sealed off the airport in the wake of the september 2001 attacks .  when she finally was allowed in , rojas found that her manager had cut her shift to just four hours .  within a couple of weeks , she was laid off .  things were little better at the nearly deserted radisson .  rojas ' hours there were reduced to practically nothing .  over the next 15 months , rojas grabbed whatever hours she could get at the hotel and worked a second job ironing clothes at hermosa cleaners in hermosa beach .  it was a tough schedule even before she got pregnant in 2002 .  and still it was not enough to keep her family 's income from sliding almost 20 % from its 1998 high to less than $ 22 , 000 .  so she and maldanado turned to what has become one of the few reliable safety nets left for many poor americans : their credit cards .  in may 2002 , rojas was rushed to the emergency room at robert f. kennedy medical center in hawthorne , where she suffered a second miscarriage .  this time , with only minimal health insurance from the hotel , she said she had to put $ 2 , 000 of her $ 4 , 000 medical bill onto her mastercard .  `` i did n't have the money otherwise , '' she said .  as the credit card industry emerged in the late 1950s and '60s , some expressed concern that even well-provisioned middle-class families would be unable to resist the lure of instant credit .  betty furness , president johnson 's consumer affairs advisor , warned that credit cards were `` modern traps '' that would turn americans into `` hopeless addicts. '' but over the last 25 years , card issuers have not let up in pushing their products .  instead , they have reached out for ever more low-income households .  federal reserve figures show that among families in the bottom fifth of the economy , the percentage of households with credit cards has soared from 11 % in the late 1970s to almost 40 % .  their average balance on those cards has climbed , in inflation-adjusted terms , from about $ 825 to more than $ 2 , 000 .  some analysts applaud the greater availability of credit .  gregory elliehausen , of the credit research center at georgetown university , said the spread of cards and other kinds of lending was part of a sweeping `` democratization of finance '' that has allowed poor families to operate more efficiently by , for example , buying decent cars to get to work .  economists dirk krueger of the university of pennsylvania and fabrizio perri , a new york university professor now on sabbatical at the federal reserve bank of minneapolis , say families of all incomes increasingly rely on loans , rather than on business and government safety nets , in times of trouble .  they borrow their way through the bad patches and pay off their debts in flush periods .  the problem comes when there are no flush periods .  some of the items purchased on rojas ' and maldanado 's credit cards can seem frivolous or extravagant -- the tvs , for example , or a $ 150 set of sepia-toned studio photographs of katherine and her mom dressed in feather boas and gowns .  but most of the charges appear to fit the definition of safety-net spending .  beyond the emergency room charge , there was $ 130 for a new fuel pump for rojas ' toyota and $ 170 to repair the power steering .  there was $ 300 at the start of september to cover rent and a $ 1 , 000 cash advance that rojas said went to help a brother bring his wife to the u.s. from el salvador .  chipping away at what 's due on their cards is virtually impossible .  that 's in large part because the interest the two are charged is about double what a typical middle-class borrower faces .  by the time they cover that , there is little left to reduce the balance .  although the stated interest on the couple 's most heavily used cards , a pair of direct merchants bank mastercards , ranges from 20.49 % to 31.99 % , a review of recent bills indicates that they are consistently charged close to the higher amount .  ( the minnetonka , minn. , bank recently was ordered by federal regulators to pay $ 3.2 million in penalties for `` downselling '' -- offering low pre-approved rates and then moving customers to higher-rate accounts without fully disclosing the switch .  it is not clear that this happened to rojas and maldanado. ) rojas and maldanado now owe $ 14 , 592 on their four credit cards -- a burden that financial experts say is appropriate for a household making about $ 100 , 000 , but not one like theirs .  in the spring of 2000 , two years after grimes ' bixel street business failed , he found a job as a security guard five blocks away at ernst & amp ; young plaza .  for a while after the september 2001 terrorist attacks , the building 's owners and tenants treated grimes and his co-workers with newfound respect .  managers listened to his suggestions about how to improve safety at the 41-story structure .  he was promoted to `` lobby ambassador , '' a sort of informal emissary to the building , and then to lobby supervisor .  his annual earnings climbed back above $ 20 , 000 , and he began to imagine himself becoming a director of security .  `` my goal was to have a facility of my own , '' grimes said .  `` i thought i should have a situation where i 'm in control. '' but for most of the last year , grimes has been anything but in control .  in february , after a dispute with their landlord , he and his family were evicted from their apartment on fedora street , where they had lived for several years .  all that he was able to save from the place were three mattresses , two chairs and a sony playstation .  by april , he had run through several thousand dollars paying for a $ 90-a-night motel room while he looked for a new apartment .  he and harvey eventually rented a two-room hollywood walk-up for $ 875 a month , or more than 40 % of their combined income .  before long , he fell behind again on his court-ordered child-support payments .  in july , things took another turn for the worse .  after a series of clashes with his boss , grimes was ordered out of the ernst & amp ; young tower and told he would be reassigned .  instead , he quit .  for the time being , he is working for the service employees international union on a campaign to organize security guards in the city 's high-rise offices .  grimes is determined to recover from the latest round of reverses .  he dreams about what his father had -- a house , a secure job -- and is convinced he 'll fare as well someday .  `` i 'm trying , '' grimes said , `` to get back to what he had. '' a month after grimes was forced out of the ernst & amp ; young tower , rojas and her family were evicted from the burin avenue bungalow where they had lived for seven years .  a developer is preparing to raze the place and put in half-million-dollar townhouses .  it 's not clear how long they could have afforded to stay there anyway .  a week before they moved , maldanado was laid off from the dry-cleaning plant to make way , he said , for new immigrants who were willing to work for less .  he has since gotten a new job , packing items at a warehouse , for minimum wage .  the family 's new apartment is so small that the bedroom is a single mass of mattresses and cribs .  the hutch and couches fill the living room to overflowing .  and the cabinets in the kitchenette are so stuffed that rojas must store her supply of infant formula in her car trunk .  but the couple has plans -- to turn around the slide in their income , to look for a house , to make sure that the girls continue all the way through school .  `` i do n't want them to be struggling like us , '' maldanado said .  rojas is making other plans as well .  soon after arriving in the u.s. , she took out a loan to finance her future at the inglewood park cemetery .  she now owns two plots at the cemetery 's mausoleum of the golden west , and recently signed papers to pay $ 82.79 a month for the next five years to buy two more .  by the time rojas is finished , she will have spent more than $ 12 , 000 in total .  but she 's convinced it 's worth it .  `` now if i die , i wo n't have to worry about my funeral , '' she said .  `` i wo n't leave my family with a financial burden. '' the source of the statistics and how they were analyzed the times used the panel study of income dynamics for its analysis of family income volatility .  the panel study has followed a nationally representative sample of about 5 , 000 families and their offshoots for nearly 40 years and is the most comprehensive publicly available income and earnings database in the world .  it is run by the university of michigan and principally underwritten by the national science foundation .  the families ' identities are kept confidential .  the times employed techniques for gauging income volatility that were developed by economists robert a. moffitt of johns hopkins university and peter gottschalk of boston college .  the times also consulted with yale university political scientist jacob s. hacker , who has conducted his own analysis of income volatility among households in the panel study and has published results linking it to economic risk .  the times employed two johns hopkins graduate students , xiaoguo hu and anubha dhasmana , to help generate the data .  moffitt guided them and advised the newspaper .  the times ' analysis looked at five-year increments from 1970 to 2000 and examined the annual fluctuations in each family 's income .  for example , for a family whose income rose by $ 5 , 000 over a five-year span , the paper examined the journey from the lower number to the higher : did the change occur in steady $ 1 , 000 annual increases ?  or did the family 's income take a big jump in one year and plunge in another ?  the times ' basic finding is that the fluctuations in annual income that individual families have experienced have grown larger over the last three decades .  based on the panel-study sample , the times estimated the annual income swings , up or down , for 68 % of all u.s. families -- those who did not have the most extreme fluctuations .  as a result , the newspaper 's conclusions do n't rest on cases outside the mainstream : the movie star whose career dries up overnight , say , or the hourly worker who wins the lottery .  to zero in on working families , the times focused on men and women 25 to 64 years old whose households had some income .  to analyze the working poor , the paper ranked families by their average income during each five-year period .  it then concentrated on those in the bottom one-fifth of income earners and especially those right at the 20th percentile .  the average annual income of panel-study families at the 20th percentile is close to the government 's official poverty line for a family of four most years .  the analysis looked at pretax income of all family members from all sources , including workplace earnings ; investments ; public transfers such as jobless benefits , food stamps and cash welfare ; and private transfers such as inheritances .  all amounts were adjusted for inflation , expressed in 2003 dollars .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would just say to the gentleman who just spoke that we believe that there are many religious organizations , many faith-based organizations that do incredible work , and they will still be able to do incredible work .  what we object to , quite frankly , is the use of taxpayers ' money to basically subsidize discrimination .  mr. chairman , i would like to particularly thank the gentleman from ohio ( chairman boehner ) and the gentleman from california ( mr. mckeon )  , subcommittee chairman , for this bill .  from my perspective this is a good bill .  and i think there are several points i would like to make .  first of all , it consolidates programs and creates efficiencies .  it gives state and local officials more flexibility , which is always important .  and the $ 3 , 000 reemployment accounts to purchase needed services to ensure reemployment seem to me to be a good idea because ofttimes when a person is trying to get back on their feet , they need to have money to pay for child care .  they need transportation .  it allows them to get reestablished , and we think this is certainly very helpful .  and then it also allows faith-based organizations to offer job training service .  we think this is important .  i would like to amplify on that just a little bit .  number one , faith-based organizations often provide services more efficiently than state or federal agencies .  the salvation army , catholic charities , jewish federation are all extremely efficient and they are very cost effective .  secondly , faith-based organizations often go where others will not go or do not go .  in inner cities , and sometimes our rural areas , we find that they are very effective .  faith-based organizations are by law allowed to hire employees to provide services which conform to the mission of the faith-based organization .  this right was affirmed by the 1964 civil rights act and the 1987 supreme court decision , corporation of the presiding bishop versus amos .  so we think there is ample legal justification for this .  number four , faith-based organization employees must often wear many hats .  for instance , a music director at a church may also work at the job training center in the afternoon .  a sunday school superintendent may also run a head start program at the faith-based organization .  so it is unreasonable and contrary to establish law to force faith-based organizations to hire employees who do not share the faith-based organization 's mission .  we think this makes perfect sense .  this is a good bill and i urge support for it .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 27 , the job training improvement act of 2005 , and i certainly applaud the gentleman from california ( chairman mckeon ) and the gentleman from ohio ( chairman boehner ) for their tireless efforts in bringing this important legislation to the floor today .  as an original cosponsor of this legislation , there are many provisions that will increase the ability of our nation 's workers to achieve greater stability in our ever-changing workforce .  i would like to mention one aspect of the bill which i am particularly proud of , the inclusion of personal reemployment accounts as an allowable usage of funds under the pilot and demonstration projects of the greater workforce investment act .  pras will provide american workers who are seeking employment added flexibility to seek the customized training and support services that they need and deserve to expand their career opportunities .  as my community of southern nevada experienced in the wake of september 11 , our economy proved to be very vulnerable .  as my community rebounded from this blow , nevadans sought help in adjusting to the realities of the workforce .  those nevadans who suffered the woes of unemployment sought additional training and support as they sought to increase their career opportunities .  mr. chairman , i know that pras would have provided my constituents with a valuable option in seeking these services .  in fact , many constituents have told me they are excited to have this opportunity in case there is another emergency at some point in time .  in fact , one young girl , lucy , wanted to make sure that there was ample education dollars available ; and i assured her there would be .  besides providing for an individualized approach to reemployment , the pras provide an added bonus .  individuals are able to retain the remainder of their account after they return to the workforce .  these funds can be used for continued training and support .  as americans return to work , they continue to face hardships until the benefits of employment become manifest .  pras can help ease this transition .  mr. chairman , i will include for the record a letter from deputy secretary of labor steven law demonstrating the administration 's continued support of the pra program .  mr. chairman , i urge all of my colleagues to support this important legislation .  as our workforce continues to engage the ever-changing economy which we are part of , this reauthorization will provide american workers with the tools they need and deserve to improve their career opportunities .  i recommend final passage of the job training improvement act of 2005 .  mr. chairman , i include for the record the letter referred to earlier from steven j. law , deputy secretary of labor .  department of labor , deputy secretary of labor , washington , dc , march 2 , 2005 .  dear congressman porter : i would like to thank you for your invaluable and effective advocacy of personal reemployment accounts ( pras ) .  like you we believe that pras will provide thousands of americans seeking reemployment with a new and more flexible means to seek customized training that leads quickly to expanded career opportunities .  we are enthusiastic about the launch of pra demonstration projects in seven states .  we are confident that this important pilot program will prove the value of pras and , with enactment of your legislation , even more americans will have access to pras .  we look forward to working with you , chairman boehner , and chairman mckeon on this innovative plan to help workers in transition .  thank you again for your leadership on this initiative .  sincerely , mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 27 , the job training improvement act of 2005 .  i would like to recognize the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. mckeon )  for their leadership and tireless efforts in bringing this bill to the house floor .  hard-working families in my district who have been laid off rely on programs like the one-stop workforce development system , which helps states and communities ensure workers to get the training they need to find good jobs .  i like to call the one-stops `` hope centers '' because they provide hope to people seeking gainful employment .  for example , my constituent , jeff ring , who after 24 years of employment as a steelworker , was laid off .  he is a father of three children , eight and younger .  he came to the one-stop and enrolled in training to become a registered nurse .  just last week he received his certification and will begin working at aultman hospital and will be making nearly 20 percent more than his previous salary .  in another case , my constituent , tiffany birtalan , a single mother raising a teenager , she currently works as a waitress making $ 2.13 an hour plus tips .  she came to the local one-stop seeking to change careers .  tiffany is now enrolled at a community college and is training to be a dental hygienist .  based on current labor market information and the high demand for this occupation , she will easily make $ 25 to $ 30 per hour .  every day , every day , hard-working people like jeff and tiffany walk through the doors of one-stop across the country seeking assistance .  we must do all we can to streamline unnecessary bureaucracy and strengthen allocations so that adequate resources are available to them achieve their hopes and dreams .  mr. chairman , this is a good bill , and i would urge my colleagues to support h.r. 27 .  mr. chairman , we are revisiting the civil rights laws .  there has been no discrimination since 1965 , and that is exactly what we are revisiting .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. chairman , we keep hearing that we are discriminating against religious organizations in terms of participation in government contracts .  that is not true .  the fact is that they can participate .  when you talk about a barrier , say what the barrier is .  the barrier is , there is a level playing field ; you can not discriminate .  we have also heard a lot about the 1964 civil rights act .  what has not been said is since 1965 there has been a specific prohibition against discrimination in federal contracts .  you have not been able to discriminate in a job training program since 1965 .  in fact , for defense contracts , you have not been able to discriminate since 1941 .  we also heard , mr. chairman , about the hiring for planned parenthood , i believe , and what your position is on abortion or gun control or something .  in the 1960s , mr. chairman , we passed civil rights laws to respond to our sorry history of bigotry , and we designated specific protected classes where you could not discriminate in employment , race , color , creed , national origin and sex ; and you can not discriminate against those protected classes .  there is a difference between telling somebody they can not get a job because i do not like your position on gun control and we do not hire blacks or jews .  race and religion are protected classes ; positions on gun control and abortion are not , and there is a difference .  mr. chairman , i have a point of order .  if it is true that they can not discriminate with the federal money , but can discriminate with the church money , is the statement that the gentleman mentioned , true or not ?  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 27 , the so-called job training improvement act of 2005 .  today 's bill has nothing to do with improving job training for our workforce -- far from it .  instead , this bill actually weakens worker protections , opens the door to hiring discrimination , and dismantles the employment service program that helps unemployed workers find jobs .  apparently the republicans have n't monitored the weak job market numbers .  how else can you explain being so cruel and unfair as to pull the rug out on our nation 's unemployed ?  let me remind my republican colleagues that there are still fewer jobs available in america than when president bush came to office .  inflation is still growing faster than the average earnings of workers -- a fact that is particularly true for low-skilled and low-income workers .  confronted with such evidence , this congress should be doing everything we can to bolster workforce investment .  yet , this republican bill cuts employment and re-employment services at the time they are needed most .  it underfunds the employment service , adult , and dislocated worker programs by consolidating them into a single block grant .  this puts a greater financial burden directly on the states , exacerbating their budget deficits and perversely triggering layoffs among the very state employees who administer these programs .  yet , much worse , it forces unemployed workers and welfare recipients to fight it out for a share of these limited funds .  to add insult to injury , the republicans give states the right to waive basic worker protections that allow employees to seek redress when they 've been treated unfairly .  they even allow religious organizations to engage in hiring discrimination in an unholy attempt to turn back a half-century of progress in preventing workplace discrimination .  current law prohibits employers participating in federal job training programs from discriminating based on race , color , religion , sex , national origin , age disability , or political affiliation or belief .  the republican bill would allow the taxpayer dollars that pay for these job-training programs to go to religious organizations that blatantly discriminate in hiring based on religious beliefs .  what next ?  will the next bush initiative include allowing discrimination based on race , sexual orientation or political affiliation ?  the vital civil rights provision barring federally-funded religious discrimination has never been controversial and has never been a partisan issue .  in fact , the provision was first included in the federal job training legislation that former senator dan quayle sponsored .  it passed through a committee chaired by senator orrin hatch and was signed by president ronald reagan .  throughout its 23-year history , this civil rights provision has not been an obstacle to the participation of religiously affiliated organizations in federal job training programs .  currently , many religious organizations participate in the federal programs and comply with the same civil rights protections that apply to other employers .  but suddenly , under the leadership of the white house , we are being asked to forget the principle of equal opportunity on which our country was founded .  now is not the time to be rolling back civil rights protections and it certainly is n't the time to be short-changing the unemployed .  congress ought to be creating solutions to make it easier for folks to find jobs , not more difficult .  this republican bill is clearly not a solution .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on h.r. 27 .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman very much .  this is an example of the collegiality of our committee on education and the workforce .  we do not agree often , but we at least have a good collegial time doing it .  i just want to stress the points that i made .  and the fact of the matter is that having a mandate that every state put all their money toward out-of-school youth does not help those states that have an in-school youth issue .  it also deprives a lot of programs that are working with our business community and in-school youth to get them better equipped to not only support themselves but their families to have them be more self-sufficient when they get out of school .  those programs would be slashed in many states if h.r. 27 were to go through as it is .  we have a great need for these in many states ; programs like girls inc. , action inc .  and others work that way .  i respect the chairman giving me this time to make that point , that this h.r. 27 change is a solution that does not have a problem .  mr. chairman , i object .  mr. chairman , once again my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are claiming they want to help workers in this nation .  but , as usual , their actions say otherwise .  the newest wia proposal does nothing more than force workers to compete with each other for services that they have come to expect and services they deserve from the wia system .  wia one-stops provide important job training services to help those struggling to find work to get resources they need .  if this bill passes , veterans and unemployed adults will be placed second to infrastructure costs .  instead of increasing funding in the bill to address infrastructure needs separately , this bill forces governors to choose between workers and updating facilities , all from the same pot of money .  limiting this pool of funding will deny workers quality services for reemployment and adult education programs , and that is just plain and simple true .  this bill also sets up a voucher system that will actually decrease the amount of services available to job seekers .  those receiving these new job vouchers will be able to pay for training courses or other job-searching expenses .  that sounds great .  but the catch is that once a worker takes a voucher , they will lose access to federal job training programs through wia for an entire year .  money and services are both critical for many workers to get back on track , particularly when they have become unemployed over and over again , and workers who should not have to make the choice between one or the other are continually faced with the dilemma .  this bill also changes the way in which the government will evaluate the success of wia programs .  now workers will be judged on how they serve the company they work for rather than on the quality of services they received under wia .  since when was wia focused on big business ' needs rather than the worker 's needs ?  the worst part of this bill , however , is that it will write discrimination into the law .  at religious institutions receiving wia funds , those who share the same religious philosophies will have an advantage over those applying for employment that do not subscribe to the same views .  workers can now lose job opportunities through blatant religious discrimination at places our tax dollars are funding .  this bill turns wia into a competitive service provider , rather than an equal opportunity resource for our nation 's unemployed workers .  this is not the way we can help our nation 's workforce , and i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 27 as it is written .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank the gentleman from michigan for offering this motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , we have asked literally hundreds of thousands of our best and brightest , many of them national guard and reservists from south dakota , to serve overseas in operations iraqi freedom and enduring freedom .  we owe these brave men and women and their families a great deal for their sacrifice during these difficult times .  what we owe them is the opportunity to make good on the american dream that they have fought to defend .  this motion would create an economic transition benefit , similar to trade adjustment act assistance , for service members returning from iraq and afghanistan who find themselves without employment .  additionally , too many of the brave men and women who are serving in the national guard and reserve forces have returned home to find their jobs gone and their families struggling to make ends meet .  while our military personnel are risking their lives in iraq and afghanistan , they should not be worrying if their jobs will be there for them when they return home or what they will do if they are not .  this motion to recommit would provide unemployed veterans of iraq and afghanistan with income support and intensive employment training and job relocation assistance so that they can successfully transition back into civilian life .  i ask my colleagues to support this motion to recommit .  our returning servicemembers from iraq and afghanistan deserve no less .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman and the gentleman from california for allowing me to participate in this debate .  mr. chairman , i am somewhat perplexed and disappointed by the tactics from the other side .  this is serious business , and simply working to divide our citizens i believe to be counterproductive .  this bill , this bill , will enhance employment ; it will increase employment and job retention , plus increase the overall skill level of our labor force .  now , the demagoguery that you hear from the other side on this issue , and , frankly , on every issue , seemingly every issue , frankly is a disservice to this debate and does a disservice to our nation .  this bill gets more resources to the individual needing it .  that is a good thing .  these are very challenging times for many in our workforce .  they need more options for assistance , not a one-size-fits-all model or program .  streamlining the one-stop career center system is easier for the client .  that is a good thing .  it does not harm the wagner-peyser money .  there are no lost resources .  greater flexibility in the delivery of core , intensive , and training services allows individuals to receive the most appropriate services specifically for them .  that is a good thing .  providing personal reemployment accounts allows those who are unemployed an opportunity to use money for those things that are often that final hurdle to getting a new job , child care , transportation , housing assistance .  that is a good thing .  getting more resources to those most in need when they are out of school helps those without other opportunities , and that is a good thing .  faith-based language in this bill is identical , identical , to four separate pieces of legislation passed during the clinton administration .  there is no discrimination on the provision of services .  with this legislation , we are actively and positively addressing how the federal government , and ultimately how each and every citizen , will come together and lend a helping hand to those needing that assistance at a very pivotal time .  that is a good thing .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support this bill and move forward in helping those needing to return to the workforce .  this is a good thing .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the opportunity to speak again on this , and i am astounded , frankly , at the level of misinformation that is coming from the other side .  i think it is important to look at the bill specifically as it defines youth .  the definition of youth has changed .  the age for when an individual is considered a youth has changed .  currently it is 14 to 21 years .  in the bill , it would change it from 16 to 24 years .  what that means is that we have more individuals out of school , out of school , who require assistance .  and that is one of the reasons the provision is in the bill to change it , so that more individuals out of school will have greater opportunity to access those monies .  it is also important to appreciate this is a department of labor program .  the department of education has a phenomenal number of programs eligible for in-school youth that really dwarfs the amount of money for the out-of-school individuals , 15 to 1 by my count .  some of those programs are title i grants to improve education for the disadvantaged , neglected and delinquent grants to local educational agencies , 21st century learning centers , safe and drug-free schools and community state grants , bilingual education instructional services , dropout prevention grants , and on and on and on , striving readers grant and vocational technical education .  in summary , no one , no one is decreasing the amount of money to in-school youth for the concerns and the issues that they have .  what we are doing is making it so that this bill addresses those individuals that are most in need .  mr. speaker , i am impressed with the fact that america is a land of vision and opportunity .  my wife 's grandparents came through ellis island and began literally with nothing .  by the second generation , both had become professionals and had made a great impact on their local economies , passed that on to the third generation with their children , adding value , working to create jobs in the long term .  i think the exciting thing of the values of this nation is the people who have come here from every ethnic background , from every nation on this earth .  the great diversity has one thing in common , that is , a unity of vision , of opportunity , of purpose that can be accomplished when we are part of something bigger than ourselves .  when i look at the numbers right now in this nation from an unemployment standpoint , we stand at 5.2 percent , which is one of the lowest unemployments in the industrialized world , particularly in light of the fact that we are involved in a war that was forced upon us by global terrorists .  when i look at the challenges that this nation has faced , there has been a great turnaround during the last 4 years .  more than that , when i look to my own district , to the fourth district of kentucky , and the tremendous steps forward that have been made in the manufacturing economy , that have been made in technology and in the creation of jobs and in the development of industry and health sciences , i am excited about our future .  i am excited about the potential for our young people to move forward and have the opportunity to create their own future , to create jobs , to start small businesses , to follow in the opportunity that i had when i finished my military service .  after a time in industry , i chose to pursue that vision to start my own company and then end up helping other companies create jobs .  i think one of the great things that we see a need for right now is to continue to remove the burden of regulations , to remove the burdensome tax code , to remove the impediments to individuals at every level of our economy , from starting their own businesses , from creating jobs in our communities , that will stay in our communities , to keep capital investment in those communities .  i think there are several steps that are important .  first , we need to bring about meaningful tax reform .  i believe that the tax cuts that were enacted in the last congress need to be made permanent so that people can keep more of what they earn .  i think it is important that the so-called death tax be completely eliminated .  the reason why is it has nothing to do with the super-rich .  it has to do with jobs in our communities , local farmers , small family farmers , people that own family businesses that have gone on for generations , to make sure that they have the opportunity to keep those jobs in the community .  that is a tax that is pernicious .  indeed , what it does is it hurts the very people it is intended to help because it removes the capital from our local economy .  another thing that is necessary for us to do is to make sure that small business owners have the flexibility to overcome a burdensome tax code .  if they see the opportunity in a good year to take advantage of capital investment to improve their competitiveness , to increase jobs in the local community or protect the jobs that they have , they should have that flexibility ; and i would like to see the ability to expense capital investment made permanent rather than renewing it as we have been doing over the past 18 years .  education is an important area as well .  we need to open up the tremendous opportunities to entrepreneurship that we have in our economy .  i met recently with a new division of northern kentucky university , a pioneer in the university of kentucky system .  they have their own school of entrepreneurship now to encourage this creation of jobs in the local economy , to show people how they can start a business , how they can add value , how they can help people create a nest egg and a job that will last for the long term and create other jobs that will strengthen our community .  it is also important that we continue to invest in our university systems and vocational and technical education .  the reason for this , working with public-private partnerships , working closely with our local communities from the federal government is to assure that we are staying on the cutting edge of technology innovation , looking for opportunity for the long term .  in addition , it is also important that we look at reforms that will allow small businesses to function .  we need to bring about meaningful health care reform .  what does that mean ?  small businesses need to have the ability to band together and form associations to reduce the cost of health care .  i found in my own business that my premiums , if i had not been elected to congress , were going to increase 50 percent , from $ 1 , 200 to $ 1 , 800 a month , just for my family and my business .  that is unconscionable .  we need to encourage these small businesses and enact regulations that will allow them to cover more of their employees , more of our employees in the long term .  in addition to that , we need to bring about meaningful medical liability reform as part of this health care reform .  the reason for that is , first of all , to stop driving our doctors out of practice in many states .  for example , in kentucky we have lost one-third of our ob-gyn doctors in the last 5 years due to medical liability costs .  but at a small business and job creation level , it will be a job creator if we have some meaningful liability reforms , not only to keep our doctors but to keep the cost of health care provision low so that we could cover more of our employees and also be more competitive in the long term .  in the end , there are a variety of steps that we can take .  i am very excited about the potential of the american people .  we have shown in a time of national adversity now that we can compete , that we can have a strong economy , that we can create jobs ; and when i look at one of the largest employers in northeastern kentucky , a very prominent steel mill that is creating jobs , that is hiring , that is competing effectively in the world economy now , i know that we are going to be successful .  mr. speaker , the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  is so eloquent in her words about freedom and the economy and what makes this country great .  we have the healthiest economy in the world , and i want to build on the things that my colleagues have said .  the reason we have the healthiest economy in the world is because we are the freest people in the world .  i agree with what the president has been saying .  if we want to see a good world , we want to see people have all of the rights and privileges , we are going to see freedom throughout the world and we are going to see growing economies .  as again the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  said , job creation was up in 48 of the 50 states last year , and unemployment was down in all regions .  i want to talk a little bit about the job training improvement act which is going to be voted on here tomorrow .  the committee on education and the workforce has passed it out of our committee after a great deal of debate .  h.r. 27 is called strengthening america 's job training system .  it builds on the significant reforms made in the bipartisan workforce investment act improvements that were enacted in 1998 .  while those reforms have provided workers with resources and tools necessary to rejoin the workforce or retrain for better jobs , there were still areas of inefficiency and duplication that were remaining .  what h.r. 27 is going to do , among other things , is eliminate duplication and waste .  it consolidates three adult job training programs into one consolidated adult funding stream to streamline program administration and reduce inefficiency at the state and local level .  this change will enable more job seekers to be served with no reduction in services .  last week we talked a lot about inefficiency and waste , and this is another one of the ways that we are going to do that .  we are going to ensure our one-stop delivery system is demand driven .  we are going to remove barriers to job training .  the bill eliminates arbitrary provisions of current law that prevent someone from accessing training immediately if appropriate to meet his or her employment goals .  state and local areas will have the flexibility to tailor services to meet individual needs , and that is so important to us as we drive down the decisionmaking to the local level .  the bill is also going to protect the rights of faith-based groups to help train and retrain workers .  the bill protects the rights of faith-based groups willing to participate in the nation 's job training system .  the landmark 1964 civil rights act makes clear that faith-based groups have the right to hire workers on a religious basis , and that such hiring practices do not constitute discrimination .  former president clinton signed a number of major laws upholding this right .  we are going to strengthen partnerships between businesses and job-training service providers .  we are going to improve adult education and enhance vocational rehabilitation .  the bill includes a number of provisions designed to strengthen the 1973 rehabilitation act in a continuing effort to help individuals with disabilities become employable and achieve full integration .  i want to make a comment about a wonderfully significant thing that happened in the fifth congressional district last week related to increasing jobs , and that was that dell manufacturing broke ground for a $ 100 million plant in forsythe county .  that plant is dell 's largest anywhere , 527 , 000 square feet .  they are going to hire 700 people in the first year .  workers are going to assemble two of dell 's desktop models , the dimension and the optiplex , in the new plant .  the jobs there are going to pay an average of $ 27 , 000 .  we are about 2 weeks away from the start of a process where people can express interest in being hired for the first 200-250 jobs , then dell will hire another 500 people .  most of these will be people from the fifth congressional district .  we are so excited to have dell manufacturing in forsythe county .  again , i think this is an indication that the policies of this president and the policies of this congress are working in terms of reducing taxes and making our south a very good place to bring new jobs .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank the gentlewoman from tennessee .  talking about being well spoken , she certainly is , and i appreciate the way that she is addressing the great things that are beginning to or continuing to happen in the economy .  the economy is growing .  one of the things that is not , of course , is social security .  it continues , as we have been told , to limp along about 1.5 percent , 1.6 percent .  but the rest of the economy , where a free market is being allowed to thrive and grow , is helping to create jobs .  now , there are problems .  we have not conquered them all .  but what a great time of hope .  and i have seen it , and you have expressed it , and you feel it in east texas .  there is an industry that is looking at reopening a plant in lufkin , texas .  that is exciting , maybe bringing 4 or 500 jobs , plus maybe several hundred more potentially once that occurs .  there is excitement as people think about the potential for helping with tort reform .  we were having hearings a couple of weeks ago and finding that one of the drains on the medical economy is the fact that 70 percent of all the massive number of physicians who are sued are dropped without any finding of fault and without paying anything in settlement .  well , that is an area we are working on to help reform , to help eliminate ; 70 percent of the physicians that are sued having to be sued and providing a carrot and a stick to correct that form where abuse has occurred .  you know , 9/11 should have sent this economy into depression .  students of history , and i was talking with some students and teachers from grace high school in tyler , texas , and they have been studying a number of aspects of this .  but we should have gone into a full scale depression .  but we had a president with courage and with vision .  and despite what the naysayers were coming out with , he stood firm .  we had tax cuts .  and as we found , as president kennedy knew , as president reagan established , every time there has been a tax cut , it has helped the economy .  thank god for president bush and his standing there firm for tax cuts .  and we have seen the economy continue to grow .  as the students i talked with earlier from grace high school had studied , the free market system works .  you know the pilgrims , as you probably know , congresswoman , they tried a communist form of government .  and what they found was that it did not work .  they nearly starved to death .  so they had to institute free market forces and just , if you do not work you do not eat .  and the next thing you know , they are thriving , crops are growing , things are going well again .  and i tell you , we have put way too much trust in government .  and i am excited about the potential this government has and to be a part of this congress with you because i think we have more potential to get this country on the right road than any congress since the 1930 new deal congress .  we can establish free market .  we can fix social security so young people today can have the benefits of the free market economy instead of struggling in poverty with what little bit social security pays .  this president , this house , this senate have such potential and i consider it an honor to be part of it .  as it says above the speaker 's head , `` in god we trust. '' and we need to make use of the trust that god has given us .  and i thank you for the trust with some of your time .  mr. chairman , the policies congress has implemented over the last four years have provided a solid foundation for american workers and businesses to build a strong economy .  with steady job growth over the last 20 months putting over 2.7 million americans back to work , it is clear that congress has the right priorities : working americans and their families .  american workers need access to job-training in order that they may obtain the skills to perform the jobs of the 21st century .  americans want more than a job -- they want jobs with higher pay and that provide them with meaning and personal satisfaction .  they also want a career , a future , and financial independence in retirement .  as our economy shifts from production to service related jobs , and from low-tech to high-tech occupations , americans need access to education and job training that provides them with the skills they need to perform .  mr. chairman , when enacted , this plan will pair workers with the employers who need the skills they offer , and vice versa .  in a dynamic and changing world economy , many americans are faced with the reality that they might have to change careers multiple times .  this plan will strengthen the ties between job training programs , adult education and vocational rehabilitation programs and the people they serve so they can continue to grow in their careers .  of particular importance to me and my colleagues who support this plan is provision i proposed that is reflected in the bill we 're voting on today .  the provision paves the way for added support for disabled veterans who need help finding meaningful work as they transition to the civilian sector after their dedicated service to our nation .  the men and women of our armed forces who have given of themselves should not only be honored , but aided as much as possible in starting life again upon their return .  the job training improvement act is a crucial step in taking the american workforce into the 21st century , and i encourage my colleagues to support its passage .  mr. speaker , about 50 percent of americans or so are employed in small businesses , and obviously if something is employing almost half of americans that are working , that should be a priority .  and one can imagine my surprise the other day to find out about a guy who drove up to a bank in an old ford , about a 15-year-old ford pickup truck , with rust holes in the floor .  he went into that bank and he took out a loan for $ 2 million .  and the head of the bank was inquiring of the guy that is the accountant that handles our books that i have to do as a congressman .  he said , why in the world did this guy have to take a $ 2 million loan out ?  and it particularly seemed out of place with this guy with his old rusty holes in his pickup truck .  he said , his father just died and they have to pay the estate tax on the farm .  i had heard stories like that before , but there it was right in front of me .  so what this bill is seeking to do is to try to make it possible that we do not destroy farms and small businesses that employ close to half the people that have jobs in our country ; and that seems to be only reasonable .  and yet i am hearing the democrats saying over here that they are all upset because we have already taxed a dollar the first time the guy earns it ; then we are going to tax him again on sales tax and other things he buys , and now it is not fair to tax a dollar the third time it comes around .  it just seems to me we do not want to destroy the businesses and farms .  what we want to do is make those jobs available , and we want to get rid of this death tax .  just dying should not be a reason for taxes .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 256 .  this bill helps big credit card companies at the expense of working families in crisis .  a harvard university study reports that more than forty-five percent of all bankruptcies are filed because of a health emergency .  approximately ninety percent of all bankruptcies are due to a health care debt , job loss , or a divorce .  when this personal crisis happens , families are driven into crushing credit card debt that they ultimately can not manage .  working families are being squeezed by skyrocketing health care costs , gas prices , and housing costs .  at the same time , this republican congress is reducing the social safety net for working families : medicaid , social security , and now , bankruptcy protections .  mr. speaker , i know there are people abusing the bankruptcy code .  but there are also companies marketing loans to people who can not afford them .  credit unions and community banks make responsible loans and do responsible underwriting .  but this bill does nothing to make big credit card companies curb their abusive marketing strategies or practice responsible underwriting .  vote `` no '' on s. 256 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , it is about great pleasure that i rise today to express my strong support for the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act .  a chinese proverb says , give a man a fish and you feed him for a day .  teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime .  and that is exactly what this bill before us does today .  there are many reasons to support this bankruptcy reform bill , but i want to focus on one that is important to many of my colleagues , to me , and to the american people .  we should support the bill because it contains important financial literacy provisions .  financial literacy goes hand in hand with helping our citizens of all ages and walks of life to negotiate the complex world of personal finance .  financial literacy can help americans avoid or survive bankruptcy .  we pass many laws that require the disclosure of the terms and conditions of the rich mix of financial products and services that are available to consumers .  unfortunately for too many americans , knowing the terms and conditions of financial products and services is challenging enough .  however , understanding those terms and conditions is often an even greater challenge .  recognizing this fact , congress included provisions in the fair and accurate credit transactions act to address the issue of financial literacy .  the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act also contains important provisions addressing economic education and financial literacy .  these provisions are designed to ensure that those who enter the bankruptcy system will learn the skills to more effectively manage their money in an increasingly complicated marketplace .  last week we passed house resolution 148 , a bill that supports the goals and ideals of financial literacy month , which is this month , april 2005 .  h. res. 148 was co-sponsored by 82 members of this body , and 409 members of this body voted for it .  mr. speaker , the number of bankruptcies remain at a historic high , over 1.6 million bankruptcy cases were filed in federal courts in 2004 .  with this in mind , i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  mr. speaker , it is with great pleasure that i rise today to express my strong support for the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act .  a chinese proverb says : `` give a man a fish and you feed him for a day .  teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. '' and that 's exactly what this bill before us today will do .  there are many reasons to support this bankruptcy reform bill , but i want to focus on one that is important to many of my colleagues , to me and to the american people .  we should support the bill because it contains important financial literacy provisions .  financial literacy goes hand-in-hand with helping our citizens of all ages and walks of life to negotiate the complex world of personal finance .  financial literacy can help americans avoid or survive bankruptcy .  we have passed many laws that require the disclosure of the terms and conditions of the rich mix of financial products and services that are available to consumers .  unfortunately , for too many americans , knowing the terms and conditions of financial products and services is challenging enough .  however , understanding those terms and conditions is often an even greater challenge .  recognizing this fact , congress included provisions in the fair and accurate credit transactions act to address the issue of financial literacy .  the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act , s. 256 , also contains important provisions addressing economic education and financial literacy .  these provisions are designed to ensure that those who enter the bankruptcy system will learn the skills to more effectively manage their money in an increasingly complicated marketplace .  before the house considers s. 256 , i want to highlight , for my colleagues , some of the bill 's important financial literacy provisions : first : the bill will facilitate educating future generations .  it expresses the `` sense of the congress '' that personal finance curricula be developed for elementary and secondary education programs .  if we teach our children , early-on , how to manage money , credit , and debt , they can become responsible workers , and heads of households and keep their parents out of bankruptcy court .  second : the bill will provide for pre-filing credit counseling .  it requires debtors , prior to filing for bankruptcy , to receive credit counseling from a nonprofit counseling agency .  the counseling must include a budget analysis and disclosures regarding the possible impact of bankruptcy on a debtor 's credit report .  next : the bill will provide for pre-discharge financial education , requiring debtors to complete an approved instructional course on personal financial management prior to receiving a discharge under chapter 7 or 13 .  the bill will also include important exceptions .  it authorizes phone and internet counseling for both the pre-filing and pre-discharge education requirements to assist debtors in rural and remote areas .  in addition , either or both requirements may be waived if services are not available or in exigent circumstances .  finally , the bill requires the director of the executive office for u.s. trustees to : ( 1 ) develop a financial management training curriculum and materials to educate individual debtors on how to better manage their finances ; and ( 2 ) evaluate and report to the congress on the curriculum 's efficacy .  this will ensure that congress can evaluate the effectiveness of these financial literacy provisions in the long-term .  last week , we passed house resolution 148 , a bill that supports the goals and ideals of financial literacy month , which is this month , april 2005 .  h. res. 148 was co-sponsored by 82 members of this body and 409 members of this body voted for it .  mr. speaker , the number of bankruptcies remains at a historic high -- over 1.6 million bankruptcy cases were filed in federal courts in 2004 .  with that in mind and in the spirit of financial literacy month , i urge my colleagues to pass s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act , which contains important financial literacy provisions that will provide americans with the skills needed to successfully navigate the world of personal finance .  mr. speaker , let 's help our fellow citizens avoid bankruptcy altogether .  `` give a man a fish and you feed him for a day .  teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. '' vote for s. 256 .  mr. speaker , i rise today to recognize the hard-working people of america who play by the rules and have paid their fair share .  decent , law-abiding , tax-paying americans are the backbone of this country , and they are the salt of the earth .  they are the farmers of southwest georgia and the family business owners who provide the jobs that keep small rural communities alive and flourishing .  all across this land are americans who have paid their taxes all their lives , only to face a final taxing event at death .  they paid their taxes during their lifetimes and should not be charged again when they die .  the death tax represents all that is unfair and unjust about the tax structure in america because it undermines the life work and the life savings of americans who want only to pass on to their children and grandchildren the fruits of their labor and the realization of their american dream .  in my state of georgia , farmers , many of whom are widow women , are faced with losing their family farms because of this death tax .  employees of family businesses , many of whom are minorities , are at risk of losing their jobs because their employers are forced to pay the unfair and exorbitant death taxes levied on them .  funeral homes , weekly newspaper publishers , radio station owners , local dry cleaners , all are affected all across the demographic spectrum .  mr. speaker , although reasonable minds may differ on this issue , i believe that the death tax is politically misguided , morally unjustifiable , and downright un-american .  let us vote today to finally eliminate the death tax and return to the american people and their progeny the hard-earned fruits of their labor .  mr. speaker , i want to rise in support of the rule that will allow us to consider the permanent repeal of the death tax .  mr. speaker , i think it is so appropriate , so very appropriate that this week , as millions of american taxpayers are finalizing their federal income tax filings that we are looking at what is one of the most egregious taxes and most unfair taxes to our small business community .  i am one of those that fully believes that the death tax is the triple tax , because americans pay tax when they earn their income .  then they turn around , they buy an asset , and they spend their money , and they are paying a tax on every bit of that .  and then , when an american dies , they have to pay the tax again .  this tax affects every american , especially our small business owners .  i have found it very curious that some of my colleagues across the aisle continue to say it only affects the rich .  well , in my district , do my colleagues know that it affects thousands of farmers , thousands of small business owners who are very upset about the death tax ?  families everywhere would benefit from the repeal of this tax .  when 70 percent of family businesses do not make it to the second generation , there is a problem ; and we know we can fix part of that problem , because it is the death tax .  for too long the death tax has been a major factor in the failure of family businesses .  the tax not only forces american families to hand over their hard work to the government ; family businesses spend millions of dollars every year trying to comply with these regulations .  in addition , it discourages savings and investment , and it is costing our economy hundreds of thousands of new jobs .  mr. speaker , 89 percent of americans want death taxes repealed .  small business owners get it , seniors get it , the farmers in my district get it .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to join the leadership and to support this rule in favor of h.r. 8 .  mr. speaker , i thank my good friend , the gentleman from missouri ( mr. hulshof )  , for yielding to me and for the great work he has done on this issue from the day we came to congress 8 years ago .  i rise in support of the bill that would repeal this tax .  the house and senate are already both on record for repealing the tax .  we just did not repeal it permanently .  by not repealing the tax permanently , we created an incredible situation for those people who would have an estate that was not taxable at all in 2010 , but is highly taxable in 2011 .  the alternatives that the other side of the aisle have discovered during the hard work to achieve the goal of this bill are certainly a long way from where they were a few years ago .  in fact , we have all heard about the impact on small businesses and family farms , but it bears repeating as we consider this legislation today .  more than 70 percent of family businesses do not survive the second generation , and 87 percent do not make it to the third generation because of the estate tax .  the idea that you give your son $ 2 million overlooks the vast numbers of family members in this country who actually are working side by side with their son or daughter .  it is hard to tell who made the money and who did not , but on the day that the original member of the family passes away , suddenly the side-by-side partner has a big problem .  family farms and businesses are among the hardest hit .  in fact , $ 2 million is quite a bit below the alternative that the gentleman will vote for and suggests that amount somehow would be okay to give in his vote , but not okay to give in his speech .  add in the value of farm equipment and business inventory , suddenly there is a lot more money than you thought you could accumulate .  when we started this debate a few years ago , i saw some statistics that the highest percentage of estates paying at that time were estates that were only slightly above the estate tax amount , but i am sure none of the principals involved had any idea that they had accumulated over their lifetime an estate that would be taxed as a taxable estate .  on friday of this week , i am going to visit with mark and kim larson who own a family farm right outside of joplin in my district .  mark tells me he and his family spend a lot of money , money which would otherwise go into continuing to grow their family business , simply trying to comply with a tax code that says if somebody dies in 2010 , your family deals with one set of circumstances ; but if they die the next year , you are impacted by the return of the death tax .  medium-to-large farms like the larsons ' produce more than 80 percent of agricultural products in america .  let us put some certainty in the future for those kinds of families .  let us do the right thing and abolish this tax that penalizes savings and hard work .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 8 , legislation that would permanently repeal the death tax , a tax that haunts millions of small business owners and farmers nationwide .  the last thing the federal government should be doing is taking more money from small business owners and farmers , and curtailing further economic growth .  they are the backbone that drives our economy forward .  i commend mr. hulshof for his leadership on this issue and praise his vision to continue lowering the federal tax burden .  throughout my twenty-two years in congress , i have proudly voted for every major tax cut initiative considered by the house .  cutting taxes is one of my highest priorities .  i remain convinced that letting americans keep more of what they earn will help stimulate the economy and create more jobs .  people will not hide this much-needed relief under their mattress or store it in their closet ; instead they will purchase necessary goods and services .  an increased demand for these goods and services will require more employees ; therefore , providing incentives for businesses to hire more workers -- putting unemployed americans back on the job and providing a framework for long-term economic growth .  the key to growing our economy is simple -- allow americans to keep more of their own money to spend , save , and invest .  my favorite four-letter word -- do n't worry , it 's a four letter word that can be used in polite company -- is jobs .  permanently repealing the death tax will create new jobs across the nation .  cutting taxes is not unprecedented .  since 2001 , congress has repeatedly passed legislation , which i 'm proud to say i voted for , to lower the federal tax burden .  for example , we voted to extend relief from the marriage penalty tax , a burdensome tax on married couples for doing nothing more than saying `` i do. '' we also voted to extend the alternative minimum tax reforms ( amt ) , which is the right step toward making sure the amt applies only to those people it was designed to cover , not working families just trying to make ends meet .  we also supported a measure to extend the 10 % bracket to lower taxes for hard working , low-income families .  finally , we voted to extend the $ 1 , 000 child tax credit .  it only makes sense to take the next step and permanently repeal the death tax .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting h.r. 8 , and put an end to this unfair , unjust , and inefficient burden on our economy .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , the reform of the nation 's bankruptcy laws which our actions today will accomplish is well justified .  this reform is strongly in the interests of consumers .  it will significantly reduce the annual hidden tax of approximately $ 400 that the typical consumer pays because others are misusing the bankruptcy laws .  that amount represents the increased cost of credit and the increased price of goods and services caused by bankruptcy law misuse .  this reform will lower that hidden tax .  the reform also helps consumers by requiring clearer disclosures of the cost of credit on credit card statements , and the reform will be a major benefit to single parents who receive alimony or child support .  that person today is fifth in priority for the receipt of payment under the bankruptcy laws .  the reform before us today elevates the spouse support recipient to number one in priority .  this reform proceeds from the basic premise that people who can afford to repay a substantial portion of what they owe should do so .  the bill requires that repayment while allowing a discharge in bankruptcy of the debts that can not be repaid .  in so doing , it responds to the broad misuse of chapter 7 's complete liquidation provisions that we have observed in recent years .  the reform measure sets a threshold for the use of chapter 7. debtors who can make little or no repayment can use its provisions and discharge all of their debts .  debtors whose annual income is below the national mean of about $ 50 , 000 per year are untouched by this reform .  they can make full use of chapter 7 and discharge all of their debts , whether or not they can afford to make repayments .  this reform imposes a modest measure of personal responsibility that is well justified , and i urge its approval by the house .  mr. speaker , i rise today to comment on the republicans ' priorities .  many of them talk about protecting veterans and making sure that veterans have the support they need when they return from protecting this country 's freedom in iraq .  today the house passed h.r. 8 to make permanent the repeal of the estate tax .  this bill will cost the american taxpayers $ 295 billion over the next 10 years .  the cost on the first 2 years could go as high as $ 1 trillion .  this bill gives a tax break to the wealthiest three-tenths of 1 percent of estates , while imposing a new capital gains tax on most of us , including small business owners and farmers .  at the same time , the republicans passed a budget that calls for $ 800 million in cuts to the va over the next 5 years .  clearly , the republicans are attempting to balance the budget on the backs of the veterans .  tomorrow , this same house will vote on bankruptcy legislation that does not protect our veterans .  many of our servicemembers , especially the citizen soldiers of the guard and the reserve forces , face terrible financial problems because they do not qualify for a narrow protection of debt incurred while on duty if s. 256 becomes law .  since 9/11 , approximately half a million reservists and guardsmen have been called to active duty , some more than once .  hundreds of thousands of reservists and national guardsmen are currently activated in support of the ongoing military operations .  according to the national guard , four out of 10 members of the national guard and reservist forces lose income when they leave their civilian jobs for active duty .  the people of this country need to see what policies the republicans actually vote for .  they talk the talk very well , but they do not walk the walk or roll the roll for our veterans who have sacrificed their bodies for this nation .  today , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. evans )  , our ranking member , filed a bill for mental health for our veterans .  it is clear that they are slipping through the cracks , and we need to focus our attention on how to assist veterans returning from the war , whether it is economic , whether it is health care , or whether it is to make sure that they have their jobs and have a seamless transition .  we need to do more than talk the talk .  we need to make sure that our money follows all of this rhetoric we have on the floor constantly about how we support the veterans .  it should not be just talk , but it should be our actions .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the permanent repeal of the death tax .  to put it simply , the death tax is just wrong .  it is wrong to encourage people to work hard all their life , only to have the government reap the benefits when they die .  it is wrong to levy hefty taxes against families of thriving small business owners just because their parents were successful .  it is wrong to stifle economic growth by forcing small businesses to close because of an overbearing tax bill delivered by a greedy uncle sam .  mr. speaker , our republican majority stands firmly against double taxation on working families .  taxes have already been paid on the assets subject to additional taxation under the death tax .  i am confident that americans are far better equipped than politicians to decide how to best spend their hard earned money .  it is time for congress to let important fiscal decisions to be made where they should be , at the kitchen table , not at the tax table .  let 's repeal this unjust tax and empower american working families who know best how to make the right decisions for themselves .  mr. speaker , we have before us today a bill that provides a safety net for people who have lost a job , had health problems , or served in the military and can not repay their debts .  it gives them the opportunity for a fresh start while continuing to hold accountable those who are able to repay their debts .  bankruptcy abuse represents a `` hidden tax '' on the american people .  when businesses have to raise the cost of their products due to unpaid liabilities , that cost is passed unfairly to all of us .  when people file for bankruptcy and cancel out their debts , small businesses suffer major financial setbacks .  bankruptcy to a small business triggers a change in its bottom line .  a smaller bottom line means less money to pay employees , which leads to job cuts -- something nobody would like to talk about , and certainly nobody would like to encourage .  this legislation will modernize the system and make it more difficult to hide behind the protections of filing for bankruptcy .  with this bill we will lessen the impact of the unpaid debt that is a hindrance to thousands of businesses and hurts our ability to create jobs .  i thank the gentleman from washington for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the rule and the underlying legislation .  i am proud to be a cosponsor of h.r. 8 and thank the gentleman from missouri for his leadership in offering this bill .  i was proud to be in this chamber 4 years ago on the day congress began phasing out the death tax .  as a result , thousands of jobs were saved and second and third generations were able to take charge of their family 's business .  we knew when we passed that law the phaseout was not a permanent fix .  today we have the opportunity to complete unfinished business .  if we do not act now to permanently eliminate the death tax , it will be revived at the stroke of midnight on january 1 , 2011 .  bringing back the death tax will drive the final nail in the coffin for america 's next generation of small business owners .  the death tax repeal permanency act represents the changes to our tax code called for by our nation 's farmers and small business owners who want to pass their family business on to the next generation .  small business owners and farmers devote their time , energy and money into building a business so it can be passed on to their sons or daughters .  in the absence of the death tax , these small businesses become a legacy for one generation to pass on to the next .  with the death tax , families face a whopping tax bill on the property and assets even though taxes have already been paid annually by the owners .  the death tax is an overwhelming burden , forcing many families to sell their businesses just to pay the 37 to 55 percent tax .  as a result , jobs are lost and generations of family toil are plundered by the government .  permanently repealing the death tax will help small businesses create new jobs .  a 2002 study showed that an extra 100 , 000 jobs a year would be created if the death tax were permanently repealed .  the wall street journal wrote in 1999 that 60 percent of small businesses would add jobs if death taxes were not on the books .  the very threat of a revived death tax has a negative impact on small business .  even with the temporary phaseout , business owners must continue to plan for paying that tax .  to help owners hire new workers and continue to invest in their business , they need to know that the death tax is gone for good .  we must not allow this small business killer to rise from the dead .  the house today has an opportunity to rid the nation of this tax that kicks families when they are down , takes away a lifetime of hard work , and stifles job growth .  i hope that my colleagues will join me today in supporting the rule and the underlying legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i hope we will reject this bill .  let me give two reasons why : first , the cost .  we talk about being fiscally responsible , we talk about trying to balance the federal budget and say we have a problem with social security as far as long-term solvency of 75 years ; but let me point out that the revenue loss of this bill equals the 75-year amount to provide long-term solvency for social security .  what we do here is make choices .  if we have a choice to provide for the long-term strength of social security or the passage of this bill , my vote is for the long-term solvency of social security .  the second issue i would like to point out is the predictability of the current estate tax situation .  it is not very predictable , and the passage of this bill will do nothing to assure people when they do their estate plans that they can rely upon the schedule congress has passed .  we have a chance with the pomeroy substitute to bring certainty to estate taxes with a reasonable exemption of $ 3.5 million , $ 7 million per couple , and reducing permanently the tax by 10 percent .  that is what people want when they do their estate planning .  they want predictability .  so if members are fiscal conservatives and are concerned about the cost of this bill on our children and seniors and if members want predictability in the estate tax , this legislation does not give it to us .  this legislation should be rejected , and we should pass a bill that provides certainty with the estate tax .  we will have that opportunity with the fiscally responsible substitute so we can deal with the budget problems of this country .  we are borrowing way too much money for our children and grandchildren .  they deserve better than that .  they deserve a congress that will be fiscally responsible , and the passage of this bill just does not do it .  i urge my colleagues to reject this legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse and consumer prevention act .  mr. speaker , we have seen a sharp increase in bankruptcies in the past 25 years .  in 2003 , consumer filings peaked at over 1.6 million filings , a 465 percent increase from 1980 .  those who believe credit card companies , mortgage lenders and other financial institutions are bearing the cost of consumers filing for bankruptcy do not understand how business works .  these costs will be shifted to american families who are paying the price for this debt , some studies reflect $ 400 per year in every household , by higher interest rates on their credit cards , auto loans , school loans and mortgages .  when the legislation passes today it will be the american families who are the real winners .  this legislation balances the consumer 's challenge of debt repayment with the needs of businesses that collect money rightfully owed to them .  in an effort to better educate consumers and improve financial literacy , the legislation requires many filers of bankruptcy to attend financial counseling .  this change coupled with congressional encouragement for schools to incorporate personal finance curricula in elementary and secondary education programs are both useful methods of curbing future debt .  as chairman of the subcommittee on education reform , which has jurisdiction over k through 12 , i feel strongly that educating future spenders can prevent debts incurred as adults .  again , mr. speaker , i want to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his years of strong and tenacious support for this legislation and thank him for not giving up on these important , common-sense changes to our bankruptcy system .  i urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation .  mr. speaker , i am submitting for the record the following remarks from mr. arkadi kuhlmann , ceo of ing direct , in opposition to the bankruptcy reform legislation under consideration .  i remain a strong supporter of s. 256 ; however , i believe mr. kuhlmann 's statement should be made part of the record .  statement of arkadi kuhlmann , ceo , ing direct mr. speaker , i am arkadi kuhlmann , ceo of ing direct , a federally chartered thrift headquartered in wilmington , delaware .  ing direct launched in the u.s. in september 2000 to challenge traditional banking by touting the high interest , no fee and no minimum orange savings account as its signature product , with a brand vision to lead americans back to saving .  ing direct has since expanded its product line to include the orange mortgage , the orange home equity line of credit , orange cds and the orange investment account .  with over 2.5 million customers and more than $ 43 billion in assets , ing direct is the fourth largest thrift in the u.s. the house is now considering consumer bankruptcy legislation that would make major changes to how consumers ' debts and obligations are treated in the bankruptcy process .  thank you for this opportunity to submit testimony for the record on this legislation .  despite the many important and positive changes this bill would make to our bankruptcy laws , this proposal remains seriously flawed .  one significant oversight is the bill 's failure to consider one of the biggest problems we face in business today : identity theft .  the washington post ran a story recently about a woman whose identity was stolen , yet her credit card company forced the fraudster 's debt on her by using the arbitration clause in her card agreement .  the bankruptcy bill must address the possibility that identity theft could lead to financial devastation through no fault of the person 's own .  in addition to overlooking the problem of identity theft , this proposal had additional shortcomings .  it actually encourages further bad lending decisions by removing an important market discipline -- the possibility of a clean bankruptcy .  without important changes , millions of consumers , who might otherwise be savers , will be encouraged into debt by aggressive credit card and other lending .  we believe it is crucial that a serious study of the connection between credit card marketing and personal bankruptcy be completed .  the bill as drafted requires such a study .  we challenge the congress to take a very hard look at the results of the study and consider further legislation , if necessary .  another important issue is the bill 's creation of a `` means test. '' by giving disparate treatment to secured versus unsecured debt , the law would treat secured creditors even more favorably than under current rules .  we believe the means test should be applied across the board or not at all .  we at ing direct believe this country is still willing to give working americans -- the engine of our economy -- a second chance when debt overwhelms them .  this bill seriously limits that second chance .  thank you for the opportunity to present our views .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of s. 256 , the `` bankruptcy abuse and consumer prevention act of 2005. '' it has been seven years since we made our first attempt to reform the bankruptcy system in the 105th congress and thanks to the tireless efforts of chairman sensenbrenner 's committee , we can see a real chance for passing a full and comprehensive bill this year .  mr. speaker , we have seen a sharp increase in bankruptcies over the past 25 years .  in 2003 , consumer filings peaked at over 1.6 million filings -- a 465 percent increase from 1980 .  those who believe credit card companies , mortgage lenders and other financial institutions are bearing the costs of consumer 's filing for bankruptcy do n't understand how business works .  american families are paying the price for this debt -- some studies reflect $ 400 per year in every household -- by higher interest rates on their credit cards , auto loans , school loans and mortgages .  when the legislation before us passes today it will be the american families that are the real winners .  this legislation balances the consumer 's challenge of debt repayment with the needs of businesses to collect money rightfully owed to them .  in an effort to better educate consumers and improve financial literacy , the legislation requires many filers of bankruptcy to attend financial counseling .  this change , coupled with congressional encouragement for schools to incorporate personal finance curricula in elementary and secondary education programs , are both useful methods of curbing future debt .  as chairman of the education reform subcommittee , which has jurisdiction over all k-12 programs , i feel strongly that educating future spenders can prevent debts incurred as adults .  i also support the new requirement for lending institutions , which will now have to take additional steps to ensure consumers fully understand the ramifications of credit spending .  credit card billing statements will now reflect the actual time it would take to repay a full balance at a specified interest rate ; contain warnings to alert consumers that paying only the minimum will increase the amount of interest ; and list a toll-free number for consumer 's to call for an estimate of the time it would take to repay the balance if only the minimum is paid .  with these steps , lending institutions can improve their chances of repayment while pro-actively educating consumers of true costs associated with borrowing .  i believe the `` bankruptcy abuse and consumer protection act '' reflects fair solutions to minimizing spending abuse , while protecting those with genuine hardship .  relief is still available for low and moderate income families .  however , this legislation will end the protection for those who make obvious attempts to abuse their credit .  those who are able to pay their debts -- will now be held to those commitments -- through means testing .  a means test would be used to determine a debtor 's eligibility for chapter 7 bankruptcy relief , where the majority of debt is excused , or chapter 13 , where a significant portion of debt must be repaid .  importantly , disabled veterans would be exempt from the means test if their debts occurred primarily as a result of being called to active duty or for homeland defense operations .  lastly , mr. speaker , this legislation also includes four additional judges for delaware 's bankruptcy court .  this increase is long overdue , as the bankruptcy caseloads in delaware continue to exceed other districts ' caseloads for chapter 11 businesses cases .  last year alone , weighted filings for delaware judges were 11 , 789 , while the national average was 1 , 763 -- in other words , the delaware caseload was 10 times the national average .  the delaware district tends to have the largest chapter 11 business cases , often referred to as the `` mega '' chapter 11 cases which are `` those involving extremely large assets , unusual public interest , a high level of creditor involvement , complex debt , a significant amount of related litigation , or a combination of such factors. '' these are again , mr. speaker , i want to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his years of strong and tenacious support for this legislation and thank him for not giving up on these important , common-sense changes to our bankruptcy system .  i urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support for this long overdue legislation .  i want to thank the chairman of the committee on the judiciary , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , for his leadership and his efforts in making this bill a reality .  it represent years of work , compromise and what i believe to be necessary reforms .  our bankruptcy laws have shifted away from what was their original purpose .  in 1915 the supreme court wrote that our bankruptcy laws were intended to give honest debtors a chance to `` start afresh , free from obligations and responsibilities consequent upon business misfortunes. '' this view was later reaffirmed in the 1934 case , local loan company v. hunt , in which the court wrote that `` the purpose of the act has been again and again emphasized by the courts in that it gives to the honest but unfortunate debtor a new opportunity in life and a clear field for future effort , unhampered by the pressure and discouragement of preexisting debt. '' over the last several decades , bankruptcy protections have expanded to cover basically anyone and everyone , not just those who truly need it .  statistics reveal that in 2004 approximately 1.5 million individuals sought bankruptcy protection .  increasingly , this protection is being sought for the consumer debt that has skyrocketed out of control as a result of the misuse of credit cards and other credit options .  this expansive coverage comes at a price .  personal bankruptcy filing cost businesses and our economy tens of billions of dollars every year .  it is basically a $ 500 per family annual tax on each and every american family .  h.r. 685 the bankruptcy abuse and consumer protection act of 2005 , the bill that is here before us today , strikes a balance .  it requires those who have the means to repay debts to do so while protecting those who truly need the assistance provided by chapter 7 , such as those with serious medical conditions , the men and women of our armed services who are on active duty , as well as those disabled veterans who served in years past .  decisions to seek the protection of bankruptcy should be taken seriously .  the consequences of filing are not just personal but impact our economy and society as a whole .  as i mentioned , it is $ 600 per family that we are essentially taxed this year for everybody who is paying their debts from those who are not .  personal filings can not continue at the current rate .  this bill represents a long overdue , much necessary first step ; and i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , this is the most special interest-vested bill that i have ever dealt with in my career in congress .  it massively tilts the playing field in favor of banks and credit card companies and against working people and their families .  i have never , ever faced such a piece of legislation .  that explains to me why it took 8 years to get this thing up here , because they kept fixing it up , making it wrong .  mr. speaker , all i want to say as we open this debate is that to those who assert that this bill cracks down on creditor abuse , i would ask them to realize that this bill does absolutely nothing to discourage abusive , underage lending ; nothing to discourage reckless lending to the developmentally disabled ; nothing to regulate the practice of sub-prime lending to persons with no means or little ability to repay their debts ; nothing to crack down on the sharks , the lenders , that charge members of the armed forces up to 500 percent interest per year or more .  they hang around the bases and lure them in .  what this is is something that we should all be truly embarrassed about .  this bill is opposed by every consumer group , by all the bankruptcy judges , the trustees , law professors , by all of organized labor , by the military groups , by the civil rights organizations , and by every major group concerned about seniors , women , and children .  please , if we do not do anything else in the 109th congress , let us not let this bill get out of the house of representatives .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from new york ( mr. nadler )  , the former ranking member of the subcommittee on commercial and administrative law .  this is an 8-year-old bill , and the gentleman has been foremost in this process for all of those years .  mr. speaker , i am now pleased to break the line of members of the committee .  mr. speaker , how much time remains on either side ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 seconds to let the gentlewoman from california know that the credit card companies solicit five billion mailings every year to college kids and others .  mr. speaker , may i ask the chairman how many speakers he may have remaining .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  we should all be embarrassed that instead of repealing the biggest loophole in the bankruptcy code , we have had 8 years to study it , the homestead exemption , the bill places only weak obstacles in its path .  instead of protecting women and health care providers from those who would terrorize abortion clinics , we lay out a blueprint for them to avoid their debts .  instead of helping individuals who have lost their job or faced a health care emergency , we deny them the chance for a fresh start .  by passing this measure in this form , the majority is telling the american people , republicans are telling the american people , it is more important to help credit card companies than innocent spouses and children ; that it is more important to protect corporate scam artists than workers losing their pension ; that it is more important to protect unscrupulous lenders than disabled veterans .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this rule and the bill authored by the gentleman from missouri ( mr. hulshof )  and commend him for his great work on behalf of america 's job creators .  i just heard the democratic member say that only a tiny fraction of the people who die in america and their families have to pay this death tax .  apparently , the gentleman has never had to go through the dreaded form 706 .  how many of us right now are trying to deal with form 1040 ?  even though we deal with it year in and year out , we still can not figure it out .  what we are trying to get rid of is the complexity of the tax code and the $ 20 billion a year that the death tax consumes from the american economy that does not go to the treasury but , rather , goes to tax lawyers and accountants and life insurance sales and keyman policies and so on , all of this estate planning which is economic waste .  it is hurting our economy .  eighty-eight pages of the internal revenue code , 88 pages of law , are devoted to trying to close the loopholes that have erupted over the 20th century as our experiment with the death tax has shown that it actually costs the government and costs the american people money to maintain it .  much as we would like to be able to tax the super-rich , they get out of the tax with trusts and loopholes and so on , as will the rich after we do what the democrats want , which is to create some complicated new definitions to try and cabin off this tax so it only affects a few people .  the only people who will actually be hurt by the burden of these new complex rules and laws will be people who we do not want to pay the tax in the first place .  if at the time that one of one 's loved ones dies , just to file the return , not pay the tax , they are going to have to plow through all of these helpful instructions that are in such small print that even a high school student might need reading glasses to get through some of these 40 pages .  but here is the kind of helpful thing one will find when a loved one dies : `` generally , you may list on schedule m all property interests that pass from the decedent to the surviving spouse and are included in the gross estate .  however , you should not list any `nondeductible terminable interests , ' described below , on schedule m unless you are making a qtip election .  the property for which you make this election must be included on schedule m. see `qualified terminable interest property ' on the following page .  `` for the rules on common disaster and survival for a limited period , see section 2056 ( b ) ( 3 ) . '' this is just one little paragraph out of 40 pages of this .  they are going to have to hire a lawyer .  they are going to have to hire an accountant to go through all this and list everything that their family member has accumulated throughout his or her entire life just to prove that they do not owe this tax .  anybody who is slogging through their form 1040 trying to file their income tax return now knows what i am talking about .  we are trying to eliminate the complexity of this law which hurts every single person who works for a small business in america .  when that small business is liquidated in order to pay the death tax because it is a tax on property of small businesses , people lose their jobs , and that is where the burden and the incidence of this tax falls .  repealing the death tax once and for all is the right thing to do , and i am very pleased that this rule will bring that to the floor .  i thank my friend from missouri for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i think a number of important points have been made today , but i rise today in strong support of this bill and in opposition to the estate tax .  some of the previous speakers on this side of the aisle have made reference to the fact that a number of us on the democratic side have worked over this issue since actually the early nineties .  i know the gentleman 's predecessor jennifer dunn and i and a number of people from this side of the aisle had worked hard together to look for a commonsense way that we could end this burden which , in my opinion , is an extreme burden on the small business community and on the farm community .  i do not know about the other speakers , but when i go back to my district and i am mixing and mingling with the folks where they eat breakfast or where they have dinner or where they gather , it is my farm families that bring this issue up .  in north alabama where i come from , we have some of the most productive farm families of any district in the country .  for generations , they have struggled and used tax lawyers and tax strategies to try to find a way to effectively pass that farm on to the next generation that we want to continue engaging in that farm business .  but they are overwhelmed by this issue .  in 2001 , we did a good step , not a great step but a good step .  we passed some temporary relief .  but the reality is that if we do not permanently repeal the death tax , you have almost got to time your death for the benefit of your family .  that is outrageous .  so let us make sure that we bury this issue once and for all .  according to the congressional research service , estates that included farm or business assets represented 42.5 percent of the 30 , 000 plus taxable estate tax returns filed in 2003 .  it is not fair to say that this is just a rich person 's issue , that the estate tax only affects the wealthy , because , according to that same congressional research service , estates over $ 5 million accounted for only 6.8 percent of taxable estates .  in this day and time , assets are accumulated in a different way than they were 20 years ago , 25 years ago , 30 years ago or even more than that .  for the benefit of those farmers , for those small manufacturers , for the local car dealers , the independent car dealers , the realtors , the funeral directors , the grocers , the family restaurant owners , the florists , the convenience store owners and many others , let us end this unfair tax burden .  i urge the members to support this .  mr. speaker , after eight years of consideration , we are now poised to enact bankruptcy legislation that is deeply flawed .  like so many of the policy priorities pursued by this congress and the administration , this bill hurts the most vulnerable among our citizens .  many of my colleagues have already discussed the terrible provisions that the legislation now before the house would implement .  for example , this bill would institute a means test for eligibility to file chapter 7 bankruptcy that two national commissions have concluded would be counter-productive , difficult to administer , and would yield little revenue to creditors .  it would remove critical automatic stay provisions that currently prevent the eviction of those who are seeking to clear arrearages in their rent .  s. 256 also would reduce the amount of personal property that those filing for bankruptcy can retain .  the republican-crafted and credit-industry driven bankruptcy reform bill is inapposite the goals for which bankruptcy was conceived .  bankruptcy is intended to provide a `fresh start ' to those who file -- not leave them sinking in financial quicksand .  however , rather than highlight the numerous other misguided provisions of s. 256 , i want to look for a moment at the economic policies of which this legislation is just one more disappointing part .  the sponsors of s. 256 claim that the rising number of people filing bankruptcies in our nation is evidence that there is widespread abuse of our current bankruptcy protections .  actually , the rise in bankruptcy filings is a powerful and tragic reminder that our administration 's economic policies are not raising living standards but are instead contributing to the increases in bankruptcy filings .  i note that bankruptcy filings actually decreased in 2004 .  in the economic report of the president delivered to congress in february of this year , the administration wrote that the `` president 's policies are designed to foster rising living standards at home , while encouraging other nations to follow our lead. '' the president 's policies are not worthy of emulation in other nations -- and they are not worthy of continuation in our nation .  job creation in our nation is failing to keep pace with the growth in the labor force .  the brookings institution has noted that since the year 2000 , there has been a 2 percent decrease in workforce participation among young people aged 25-34 , which is unprecedented since world war ii .  slow job creation has also put little pressure on businesses to raise wages .  as a result , wages for many low- and middle-income workers are now not keeping pace with consumer prices .  perhaps not surprisingly , the congressional research service found that in 2001 , 27 percent of families in the lowest one-fifth of household income distributions had debt obligations that exceeded 40 percent of their incomes .  while workers are not seeing increases in their purchasing power , they are also being left without health insurance to cover their medical expenses .  a recent harvard study published earlier this year found that nearly half of all bankruptcy filings involve some major medical expense .  as recently as 1981 , medical expenses accounted for less than 10 percent of bankruptcy filings .  forty-five million americans are now uninsured -- and countless millions more regularly experience lapses in coverage .  more than 38 percent of those who filed bankruptcy for medical reasons were found to have experienced some type of lapse in their insurance coverage during the two years preceding their filing .  in fact , 90 percent of the bankruptcies filed are by those who have been injured , are sick , have been laid off , and/or are going through a divorce .  laid-off workers are the fastest growing group of people filing bankruptcy .  all the while , credit card company abuses are mounting in the form of deceptive marketing practices , irresponsible accounting practices and other predatory practices .  negative amortization by credit card companies require minimum payments so low as to allow debt to increase rather than be reduced .  these practices are designed to give the debtor a false sense of financial health while incurring more debt .  the result is often inevitable .  the minute a tragedy strikes and a debtor falls behind in one payment , debtors are often swarmed upon by all of their credit card companies -- who want to collect immediately .  this is an unfair result for these debtors and a boon for creditors .  and now , congress is poised to add insult to uninsured injury by destroying the basic protections that our bankruptcy laws have offered to those most in need .  mr. speaker , the increase in personal bankruptcy filings in our nation is not proof that our bankruptcy laws need reform .  it is , instead , proof that our economic policies need reform -- and need reform urgently .  this bill only serves to disadvantage those honest americans struggling to make ends meet .  i urge my colleagues to oppose s. 256 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the pomeroy substitute to house resolution 8. and i argue that anyone in this body who is currently concerned about our ballooning national debt should vote in favor of the substitute .  the pomeroy substitute is fair , and it covers those who need tax exemption now , america 's small businessmen and america 's farmers .  it is clear from the debate today that the majority of members in this body believe that our farmers and small businessmen and -women need relief from the estate tax , and i will do all i can to ensure that these hardworking americans get their due tax relief .  in my opinion , the pomeroy substitute does this by increasing the estate tax exemption level in 2006 by $ 3 million for individuals and $ 6 million for couples .  additionally , from 2009 forward , the tax exemption level would be $ 3.5 & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h1939 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; i know my friends on the other side of the aisle desperately want to make sure that the paris hiltons of america are fully covered , but they have done pretty good the last 100 years ; and i am sure under the pomeroy bill in the future they will continue to do pretty good .  additionally , the substitute bill eliminates the liability for tax on gains accrued before death .  this is incredibly important to those children who may decide to sell the small farms and businesses they have just inherited .  by using the stepped-up basis to calculate the value on an estate at a time of death , the substitute bill is actually making the tax code simpler and less cumbersome .  it seems to me that this is important to us .  it is important to the president , and it is important to many of us in congress .  i will do all that i need to do in order to support estate tax relief for farmers and small business owners in my district .  but would it not be a great message to send to the senate and to the american people by providing them with the estate tax relief they want and need without breaking the bank ?  it seems to me that it is the fiscally conservative thing to do .  i truly believe we have got to stop this liberal policy of borrowing and spending .  to my friends on the right who believe that any estate tax is so vile that you took your polling advice and decided to start calling it the death tax , you should read leviticus 25 containing god 's message to moses that every 50 years , called the jubilee , all possessions must be returned to the original owners .  i invite you to read that scripture .  you had a chance in 2002 to increase the benefits by giving the tax relief to the estates of all americans .  why did you not ?  it clearly was not to keep the budget balanced .  was it political ?  every year around tax time and every 2 years around election time , you come back with permanent tax repeal .  i think now is the time to do it .  let us get it done .  the pomeroy substitute bill is a bill we need to send to the senate .  it is a fair bill .  it is fiscally responsible .  it should be the house 's bill .  mr. speaker , to listen to this majority , we have a crisis in this country -- one brought on by spendthrifts defrauding the public via our bankruptcy system .  indeed , to look at the statistics , we are facing a crisis -- but it has nothing to do with ordinary americans acting irresponsibly or even our bankruptcy system .  last year , more than a million-and-a-half families resorted to declaring bankruptcy -- a full half of which occurred not because of any irresponsible behavior but because of unexpected medical expenses brought on by an illness or death in the family .  these families -- widows and widowers , mothers and fathers , many in the middle-class -- are hardly `` gaming the system '' -- they are doing the best they can under unbelievable circumstances that have left them with no choice but to resort to the only recourse they have : filing bankruptcy , wiping their debt and trying their best to start anew .  if there is any `` crisis , '' it is the skyrocketing cost of health care , which has left more than 14 million americans spending more than a quarter of their every paycheck on medical costs -- that mr. speaker , is what i call a crisis .  a moral crisis .  we can all agree that individuals should be accountable for living beyond their means , but if anyone is `` gaming '' our bankruptcy system , it is the credit card companies , who have long been advocating for this bill at the same time they prey on unsuspecting customers .  and as with previous incarnations of this legislation , there is virtually nothing in the bill that would require creditors to curb their outrageous predatory lending practices that mislead even the most educated consumers into debt .  this bill is especially bad for women , who are the single largest group currently in bankruptcy .  by making it harder for them to file for bankruptcy , we will make it more difficult for them to maintain essential items such as the car that gets them to and from their job .  women who are owed child support will be forced to compete with credit card companies and other lenders for dollars to spend feeding and clothing their children .  the bill also allows perpetrators of violence against women at health centers to escape liability for their actions through the bankruptcy courts .  mr. speaker , this bill is yet another product of an administration and majority that taxes work and rewards wealth .  it appeals to the worst in all of us , painting honest middle-class families who are working hard and taking personal responsibility for their actions as liars , cheaters and spendthrifts .  at the same time it lets off the hook those who do act irresponsibly by preserving loopholes which allow wealthy bankruptcy filers to hide their true wealth in mansions and trust funds .  i can hardly imagine a more unfair piece of legislation less concerned with promoting the common good , and i urge my colleagues to oppose it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this latest republican assault on social security and on fiscal sanity .  at a time of apparently unending war and the largest budget deficits in american history , our republican colleagues are intent on solving a crisis that does not exist .  as the president wastes millions of our taxpayer dollars crisscrossing this country to declare that there is no social security trust fund and questioning the full faith and credit of the federal government , his republican allies here seem intent on actually making his dire and inaccurate statements a self-fulfilling prophecy .  today , what they propose is to borrow from the social security trust fund and to borrow from the medicare trust fund in order to give more tax breaks to the richest one-tenth of 1 percent of the people in this country .  that is borrowing from social security for purposes that have nothing to do with the social security system because they think some rich folks in this country do not have wallets that are fat enough .  it is taking from the hard-working employees and employers who are paying their social security money and transferring that wealth over to the richest one-tenth of 1 percent .  they call it the death tax ?  i think that is a good name .  if they keep pursuing bills like this , it will be the death of social security and medicare , as sure as i am standing here .  like most democrats , i have voted not once but a number of times to repeal the estate tax for most americans and to see that it is done right away , now , not postponing it for years as the republicans propose to do .  there is another democratic substitute coming out today that is going to exempt 99.7 percent of all estates from this tax , and only cover the richest .3 percent of the wealthiest estates in this country .  that means you are not going to have a small business in east austin or west mcallen or a family farm in karnes county that is covered if they are even covered now , which the vast majority of them are not .  why do they keep talking about family farms since it is irrelevant to this debate ?  they keep talking about the guy in the pickup who is working extra hours to try to make ends meet .  they keep talking about the little family business that with good reason wants to be able to pass that enterprise on to the next generation of that hard-working family .  the reason they talk about those folks is that steve forbes 's family is not quite as sympathetic .  the family of enrons ken lay , not quite as sympathetic .  they can not defend transferring money from the social security and medicare trust fund to ken lay 's family , to steve forbes 's family , to ross perot 's family , because it is totally indefensible .  their goal is to ensure that the richest of the rich are rewarded , as if they have not rewarded them enough for the last few years that they have controlled this congress .  social security is not in crisis today , nor is medicare , but if you keep passing bills that drain $ 750 billion from the treasury at the very time more people are retiring , you will have a crisis .  it was back almost a century ago when a republican , a fellow named teddy roosevelt , said that `` inherited economic power is as inconsistent with the ideals of this generation as inherited political power was inconsistent with the ideals of the generation which established our government. '' it is still inconsistent .  would that we had even one teddy roosevelt republican today to put a stop to this nonsense .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 8 , which continues , in my view , the policies by the majority of three tax cuts , in 4 years , with four straight record-breaking deficits that have added $ 2 trillion in 4 years to the nation 's debt .  and here again the majority offers $ 850 billion of tax cuts to the wealthiest families in this country .  when you get in a hole that is $ 2 trillion deep , rule one , stop digging .  if you can not figure that out , you can not produce any more when it comes to economic growth for this country or jobs or resolving the health care crisis or the educational crisis we have in the country .  my view is repeating the same mistake and expecting a different result is a sign that you have lost your bearings .  this bill will do nothing to stimulate the economic growth or savings , which is what we should be focused on , rather than further shifting the tax burden from wealth to work .  we could be debating and using this time on simplifying the code .  just 2 weeks ago there was a report out by the irs and others showing that $ 350 billion a year goes unreported in taxes where people are not complying and cheating .  we have a tax code that rewards and initiates a culture of cheating and penalizes those who abide by the rules .  that is where we should be focusing , on simplifying the code and taking away the incentive to cheat , which is what we have today in our code .  with all the economic challenges we are facing today in the area of health care , energy , education , eliminating the estate tax , fully eliminating , should be the last of our priorities .  but the republicans will soldier on and continue to fight until taxes are eliminated for the very last multimillionaire .  instead of helping the wealthy avoid taxes , we should be helping middle-class families save for their retirement .  that is a true deficit we have in this country , a retirement and savings deficit .  the savings rate is at its lowest level since the 1930s , lower than any other industrialized nation .  millions of families are financially unprepared for retirement .  given this reality , why are we debating the elimination of the estate tax instead of real tax reform and a savings agenda for the middle class .  are holding the interests of the wealthy and special interests above the hopes and dreams of the middle-class families the kind of values we want our tax code to reflect ?  as late former supreme court justice louis brandeis once said , `` we can have democracy in this country or we can have great wealth concentrated in the hands of a few , but we can not have both. '' mr. speaker , there is no doubt which one this bill will achieve .  mr. speaker , i rise today to voice my opposition to h.r. 8 .  as a part-time farmer and former small business owner , i have long supported responsible legislation to provide estate tax relief for family-owned businesses .  unfortunately , this bill will not accomplish that goal .  throughout my service in the u.s. house , i have been a strong supporter of estate tax relief for family farmers and small business owners .  the first bill i introduced as a member of congress was a bill to raise the inheritance tax exemption from $ 600 , 000 to $ 1.5 million and for the first time indexed it to inflation .  but h.r. 8 is an extremely irresponsible bill that will add billions to our national debt for our children and grandchildren to pay and will harm more taxpayers than it helps .  the unfortunate reality of our situation is that we have witnessed the most dramatic fiscal reversal in our nation 's history .  our budget surpluses have been frittered away , and our nation is now drowning in red ink with ever- growing budget deficits and increasing federal debt .  the primary culprits for our increasing debt are the risky , irresponsible tax schemes the republican congress has enacted the last 4 years .  instead of adopting a bill that would increase the burden on our children and grandchildren , we need a common-sense solution that would exempt the vast majority of americans from an estate tax while maintaining a degree of fiscal integrity .  that is why i am supporting the democratic substitute authored by representative earl pomeroy .  this substitute provides an estate tax exemption of $ 3 million for individuals and $ 6 million for couples beginning in 2006 , and the exemption would increase to $ 3.5 million and $ 7 million respectively in 2009 .  furthermore , this plan would instantly repeal the estate tax on a vast majority of farms and small businesses , as well as shield heirs from dramatic capital gains tax liabilities that are part of the republican plan .  the u.s. department of agriculture has estimated that more farm estates would have an increased tax liability from the republican plan 's carry-over basis rules than would ever benefit from the repeal of the estate tax .  i support estate tax relief , but not at the expense of our senior citizens who benefit from social security and medicare .  the only way to pay for the republican bill is by taking more money out of the social security an medicare trust funds and replacing it with ious .  h.r. 8 will compound the fiscal mistakes congress has made the last 2 years with its policy of tax cuts at any cost , including our children 's education and our nation 's future .  the people of north carolina 's second district elected me to help chart a common-sense , fiscally prudent course for the country .  i pledged to represent my constituents by paying down the national debt ; saving social security and medicare funds for older americans , and investing our country 's resources into education , health care and other initiatives that enable people to improve their lives .  h.r. 8 is inconsistent with these goals ; therefore , i oppose the bill .  mr. speaker i rise in strong opposition to the misnamed `` bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act , '' ( s. 256 ) .  current bankruptcy law needs some adjustment , but this bill is not the solution .  it hurts middle-class consumers in a variety of ways : the bill would allow landlords to evict battered women without bankruptcy court approval , even if the eviction poses a threat to the women 's physical well-being ; and , it permits credit card companies to reclaim common households goods which are of little value to them , but very important to the debtor 's family .  it is very important to note that the bill does absolutely nothing to discourage abusive underage lending , nothing to discourage reckless lending to the developmentally disabled and nothing to crack down on unscrupulous pay-day lenders that prey on members of the armed forces .  last year nearly one and a half million middle class individuals filed for bankruptcy .  their average income was less than $ 25 , 000 and the principal causes for their filings were layoffs , health problems and divorce .  in my judgment , it is a grave mistake to punish these individuals while rewarding credit card companies and business lobbyists at a time when corporate greed has already destroyed the lives of millions of american workers .  i will support a balanced bankruptcy reform bill , but s. 256 is in no way balanced and i believe does more harm than good , therefore i strongly oppose this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today as a proud cosponsor of h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  first , i would like to take this opportunity to thank the gentleman from missouri ( mr. hulshof )  for his leadership on the bill .  mr. speaker , i do not believe that there has ever been a more reprehensible tax on the face of the earth than the death tax .  the death tax represents not only a tax on the deceased but also on their families .  husbands , wives and children and other relatives bear the burden of this tax while they are still struggling to cope with the loss of their loved one .  mr. speaker , it is intolerable and absolutely unacceptable for the federal government to exact a tax on death and on the surviving families , causing them to lose their homes , their business , their farms and the lives they have struggled to build .  after all , they have created and established these businesses with after-tax dollars .  taxes have already been paid , and every bit of profit that they might make in a year is taxed as well .  currently , the repeal of the death tax is set to expire in 2010 ; and , mr. speaker , i can not understand how anyone would allow the federal government to hand a grieving family in 2011 a bill for the death of their loved one .  death 's inevitability should not be a taxable event .  mr. speaker , let us get the federal government off the backs of grieving families and pass this rule and this bill for the sake of fairness and decency .  mr. speaker , i want to commend the gentleman from missouri ( mr. hulshof )  , the gentleman from alabama ( mr. cramer )  , the gentleman from california ( mr. cox )  , and all those who have worked so hard to get rid of this onerous burden on a number of american citizens .  the federal death tax is a job killer .  i represent the fifth district of virginia .  we have a number of counties and jurisdictions that focus on manufacturing .  many of our smaller manufacturers have had to sell out to larger manufacturers ; and as a result , we have double-digit unemployment in a number of jurisdictions that used to be the home to small manufacturers .  a factor in their selling out was the federal death tax because they would not have the cash to pay when death knocked on the door .  if we pass this bill , we will help the job situation in those types of jurisdictions in the united states .  i hear the other side say that this is a bonanza and a budget breaker because we will not be getting the revenue from the federal death tax .  let me tell the members under the current law the really rich in this country trust and foundation themselves out of the federal estate tax .  i believe that mr. gates , the owner of microsoft , is a proponent of keeping the federal death tax .  he has got a father that is in charge of his foundation .  but many small farmers and average business persons are not able to have the cash to set up the trusts and the foundations that will get themselves out of the federal estate tax .  and i predict that if we pass this bill , the incentive to set up those trusts and foundations that avoid taxes will not be there and in the long run the treasury of the united states will benefit because we will still get the capital gains tax when the assets are sold .  mr. speaker , bankruptcy filings are at an all-time high .  when bankruptcy filings increase , every american must pay more for credit , goods , and services through higher rates and charges .  it is time that we relieve consumers from the burden of paying for the debts of others .  since the 105th congress , the house has passed bankruptcy reform legislation eighty times .  s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act , is the culmination of years of work and bicameral as well as bipartisan negotiations .  a key aspect of s. 256 is retention of the income-based means test .  the means test applies clear and well-defined standards to determine whether a debtor has the financial capability to pay his or her debts .  the application of such objective standards will help ensure that the fresh start provisions of chapter vii will be granted to those who need them , while debtors that can afford to repay some of their debts are steered toward filing chapter 13 bankruptcies .  s. 256 is good for america 's family farmers .  as chairman of the house committee on agriculture , i am pleased that we are finally making the chapter 12 provisions of the bankruptcy code permanent .  bankruptcy relief for family farmers will be made easier for those to obtain a discharge of their indebtedness .  in addition , the bill allows more family farmers to qualify for chapter 12 relief by doubling the debt limit and lowering the percentage of income that must be derived from farming operations .  in addition , s. 256 prevents fraud .  under the current system , irresponsible people filing for bankruptcy could run up their credit card debt immediately prior to filing knowing that their debts will soon be wind away .  what these people may not realize or care about is that these debts do not just disappear .  they are passed along in higher charges and rates to hard working people .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the `` bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005. '' bankruptcy filings are at an all time high .  when bankruptcy filings increase every american must pay more for credit , goods , and services through higher rates and charges .  it is time that we relieve consumers from the burden of paying for the debts of others .  since the 105th congress , the house has passed bankruptcy reform legislation eight times .  s. 256 , the `` bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 '' is the culmination of years of work and bi-camerla , as well as bi-partisan negotiations .  a key aspect of s. 256 is the retention of the income-based means test .  the means test applies clear and well-defined standards to determine whether a debtor has the financial capability to pay his or her debts .  the application of such objective standards will help ensure that the fresh start provisions of chapter 7 will be granted to those who need them , while debtors that can afford to repay some of their debts are steered toward filing chapter 13 bankruptcies .  s. 256 is good for america 's family farmers , who are the backbone of our agriculture industry .  the bill permanently extends chapter 12 bankruptcy relief for family farmers and makes it easier for family farmers to obtain discharges of their indebtedness .  in addition , the bill allows more family farmers to qualify for chapter 12 relief by doubling the debt limit and lowering the percentage of income that must be derived from farming operations .  in addition , s. 256 prevents fraud .  under the current system , irresponsible people filing for bankruptcy could run up their credit card debt immediately prior to filing , knowing that their debts will soon be wiped away .  what these people may not realize or care about is that these debts do not just disappear -- they are passed along in higher chargers and rates to hard-working folks who pay their bills on time .  s. 256 ends this fraudulent practice by requiring bankruptcy filers to pay back nondischargable debts made in the period immediately preceding their filing .  s. 256 also helps consumers .  for example , this legislation helps children by strengthening the protections in the law that prioritize child support and alimony payments .  in addition , it protects consumers from `` bankruptcy mills '' that encourage people to file for bankruptcy without fully informing them of their rights and the potential harms that bankruptcy can cause .  s. 256 also ensures the fair treatment of those that administer our bankruptcy laws .  specifically , this legislation restores fairness and equity to the relationship between the u.s. trustee and private standing bankruptcy trustees by providing that in certain circumstances , after an administrative hearing on the record , private trustees may seek judicial review of u.s. trustee actions related to trustee removal .  this compromise , worked out between the u.s. trustee 's office and representatives of the private bankruptcy trustees , will ensure fairness for those who dedicate themselves to their duties as private trustees while ensuring that the u.s. trustee is subject to the same checks and balances as other government agencies .  bankruptcy should remain available to people who truly need it , but those who can afford to repay their debts should repay their debts .  s. 256 provides bankruptcy relief for those who truly can not pay their debts , but also clearly demonstrates to those who would abuse our system that the free ride is over .  i believe that s. 256 strikes the appropriate balance between these two important goals .  i want to commend chairmen sensenbrenner and cannon for their tremendous work on this legislation , and i urge each of my colleagues to support this fair and reasonable overhaul of the u.s. bankruptcy system .  mr speaker , i rise today in opposition to this bill .  this bill will weaken homestead protections currently in place under state laws , hurting my constituents , the citizens of texas , and the citizens of any other states that have laws protecting individuals ' homes valued over $ 125 , 000 , which is the limit this bill sets .  texas , which has the longest and oldest history of homestead protection laws in our country , has no cap on homestead protection , along with kansas , iowa , florida , and south dakota .  minnesota , rhode island , and nevada 's laws protect home equity of $ 200 , 000 .  property values across the nation vary widely .  the median resale price of a home in california is $ 215 , 000 .  in nebraska it 's $ 70 , 200 .  while i understand there must be a sensible cap on exemptible home equity to ensure the law is not protecting million dollar mansions , $ 125 , 000 is unreasonable given the skyrocketing price of real estate in texas and many other parts of the country .  this bill will make bankruptcy even more expensive and burdensome than it already is , on hardworking americans who have fallen on hard times and seniors on fixed incomes , while doing nothing to address the out of control lending practices by credit card companies .  mr. speaker , i can not support a bill that will hurt hard-working texans , and i oppose this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 8 , which will finally free america 's hard-working farmers and small business owners from the specter of the death tax .  benjamin franklin said : `` in this world nothing is certain but death and taxes , '' but i doubt even the inventive mr. franklin imagined the taxation of death itself .  americans get taxed when they earn money .  they get taxed again when they spend what is left , and government pursues them beyond the grave , devastating their relatives who must sell the family farm or liquidate the family business just to pay the taxes .  the impact of the death tax extends far beyond the pain it inflicts upon grieving families .  the death tax distorts economic decisions on a massive scale .  it punishes thrift .  it reduces savings and investment , and it diverts capital away from job creation to tax avoidance .  the national federation of independent businesses has estimated that the death tax will compel one-third of small business owners today to sell some or all of their business .  the center for the study of taxation found that 70 percent of all family businesses can not survive the second generation and 87 percent do not make the third .  all of this wasted money , energy and over 100 , 000 jobs lost per year and for what , a tax that the joint economic committee says costs just as much to collect as it generates in revenue .  mr. speaker , the opponents of h.r. 8 can not provide any justification for the continued existence of this useless relic .  it hurts the people it is intended to help , and it reduces stock in our economy by $ 497 billion a year .  i urge my colleagues to drive the final nail in this coffin so 6 years from now americans will not wake up to find that , like a vampire , this unfair tax has arisen from the dead to once again suck the blood from a lifetime of hard work and sacrifice .  mr. speaker , we come to the floor today to address an issue of tax fairness .  you see , no matter what kind of spin our friends on the other side of the aisle try to use -- the death tax simply is n't fair .  it 's an unfair burden that the government has placed on families and small business owners .  i 've called it a cancer -- because it 's slowly destroying family farms and businesses across the nation .  many of our small family businesses are wrapped up in a loved one 's estate .  and when family members are left with a huge tax bill , it hits them hard .  i 've heard countless stories from families who have had to sell off a chunk of the family farm just to handle their tax burden .  our friends on the other side of the aisle say that this is too costly and it 's bad for the budget .  i say it 's too costly not to act .  this tax is destroying small businesses .  and we all know they 're the real job creators in our economy .  what kind of nation have we become when a small family farmer ca n't afford to pass the business on to his children ?  look at the facts .  70 percent of family businesses do not survive the second generation , 87 percent do not make it to the third generation .  many of these businesses are going belly-up because of the death tax .  we all realize that the government must have revenues , and that taxes are a necessary evil .  but this tax is n't necessary ; it 's just evil -- because it takes away the american dream from too many american families .  it 's time we give families a real chance at the american dream .  we need to tell the irs to stop lurking around a grieving family 's pockets .  death is not a taxable event .  it 's time we let the death tax die .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 202 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to remind my colleagues that the rule that we are debating here to talk about the repeal of the death tax makes in order the substance of the subject that the gentleman from massachusetts talked about , the pomeroy substitute .  we will have a vigorous debate on that .  this is a very fair rule so that we can debate the difference between the two , and the body will work its will .  mr. speaker , i rise today as a cosponsor of h.r. 8 and in support of this rule .  i believe , as most americans do , that it is unacceptable for a grieving family who has recently lost a loved one to get a visit from the undertaker and the irs on the very same day .  it is unconscionable , and it ought to be illegal .  the death tax is really a tax on the american dream .  americans work hard all their lives building up farms and ranches and small businesses , hoping that maybe one day they can pass this along to their families .  but after years of payroll taxes and income taxes and sales taxes and property taxes , many businesses and farms just do not make it .  and those that do , the government can step in and take over half of what they worked their entire life to build .  now , mr. speaker , i grew up working on a farm , and i represent a large portion of rural east texas .  east texas is a great place to live , but sometimes it can be a challenging place to make a good living .  recently , i spoke to a rancher in my district who has worked hard nearly 30 years building up a cattle ranch operation .  his greatest dream is one day to leave that ranch to his family .  but with sadness in his voice he told me , you know what , congressman ?  by the time the government takes its share , there is just not enough to go around .  it is not fair to take that family 's ranch .  it is not fair that americans are being taxed twice on the same income .  and it is not fair that the federal government can step in and automatically inherit 55 percent of the family farm , a family business or a family nest egg .  mr. speaker , let us vote for this rule .  let us support h.r. 8 .  let us kill the death tax and breathe new life into the american dream .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman very much for the time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of legislation to bury the destructive death tax once and for all ; and i might mention that my personal experiences , even with my own family and others , has been just the opposite of the gentleman who just spoke before .  nearly everywhere i go throughout my largely rural , agricultural district in northern california , i hear from businessmen and businesswomen and many farmers and ranchers who have had to liquidate and sell a family business or farm just to pay the federal estate tax .  this is simply wrong .  four years ago , i joined with president bush and a majority of representatives and senators in an effort to enact into law historic tax relief legislation , including repeal of the death tax .  unfortunately , due to outdated senate budget rules , the 2001 tax law will sunset on december 31 , 2010 .  this has created an incredibly unfair and arbitrary situation .  consider that the heirs of those who pass away in 2010 will face no death tax whatsoever , while those whose families are unfortunate enough to pass away in 2011 or thereafter will face tax rates of up to 55 percent on their assets , forcing many of them to have to sell .  certainly no one can reasonably argue that this is rational tax policy .  furthermore , the death tax extracts a high cost from american taxpayers .  studies have found that family businesses spend up to $ 125 , 000 on attorneys , accountants and financial experts to assist in estate planning .  these dollars could otherwise be used to modernize equipment , expand their business or farms and create new jobs .  mr. speaker , the death tax is , without question , one of the most destructive , counterproductive and unfair provisions of our tax code .  let us bury the death tax once and for all .  vote `` aye '' on this legislation .  mr. speaker , i favor cutting unnecessary , ineffective or unfair taxes , but in balanced and fiscally responsible ways .  i have been one of the few democrats in congress who has been willing to cross party lines to vote for tax cuts .  i have voted to eliminate the estate tax in the past .  i have been willing to vote for eliminating the marriage penalty , to vote for cutting taxes for small businesses , to vote for cutting taxes to help people pay for education and retirement , and to vote for cutting taxes for senior citizens and to give business tax credit for research work .  with a war in iraq and looming postwar costs , increased expenses for domestic security and a ballooning budget deficit , congress must exercise restraint on both revenues and spending to prevent fiscal policy from spiraling out of control .  the consensus in favor of balancing the budget over the long term must be re-established .  there are a wide range of pressing national challenges that need action , from rapidly increasing health care costs , to our increasing dependence on ever-more-expensive foreign oil , to a broken and increasingly corrupt political system , and yet today we are passing a bill that will only help a few of the already wealthy .  today we are debating total elimination of the federal inheritance tax .  permanently repealing the estate tax would further balloon the federal budget deficit by an estimated $ 290 billion through 2015 ; and by $ 745 billion through 2021 .  add in the interest costs of borrowing the funds to pay for this measure , and the true 10-year cost is nearly $ 1.3 trillion .  i support the substitute offered by representative earl pomeroy which will protect families and small business from the estate tax .  the substitute increases the estate tax credit to $ 3 million , $ 6 million for married couples , beginning in 2006 .  under the substitute , the credit would be increased to $ 3.5 million , $ 7 million for couples , in 2009 .  the pomeroy substitute would eliminate tax reporting compliance burdens and carryover taxes for over 71 , 000 estates each year which effects small business and families .  according to representative pomeroy 's calculation , his package would exempt 99.68 percent of all estates from the estate tax , yet it would save the treasury $ 217 billion compared to total repeal .  it is worth noting that the saving of $ 217 billion is equal to 40 percent of the shortfall of social security of the next 75 years .  mr. speaker , today the national debt is the largest in history .  americans now collectively owe about $ 7.8 trillion .  here we have another tax cut that is not being paid for , even as the bush administration and the leadership of this congress spend more than the american government has ever spent on homeland security and on all the other expenses of running the government -- especially the huge costs of the war in , and occupation of , iraq .  government borrowing of this scale places the burden of repaying our debts on our children .  governing is about making choices .  our constituents all across america sent us to congress to make the tough decisions .  they did not send us here so we can pass those decisions on to our children , and they certainly did not send us here to pass the cost of our decisions on to our children .  i want the people of this country to realize that , right now , we owe collectively , about $ 4.5 trillion to foreign countries .  japan holds $ 702 billion of our debt ; china , including hong kong , $ 246 billion ; the u.k .  $ 163 billion ; taiwan , $ 59 billion ; germany , $ 57 billion ; opec countries , $ 65 billion ; switzerland , $ 50 billion ; korea , $ 68 billion ; mexico , $ 41 billion ; luxembourg , $ 29 billion ; canada , $ 43 billion -- the list goes on and on .  more tax cuts of this size will not only jeopardize critical public services now , but they will also hurt americans well into the future .  massive deficits now create large debt and will create high interest payments that will crowd out spending on public investments for future generations .  moreover , these deep deficits threaten to increase interest rates in the future -- making it harder for americans to buy homes and afford higher education and making it harder for businesses to raise capital .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting permanent reform of the estate tax , but not irresponsibly repealing it .  government should follow the principle of helping the present generation and helping future generation as well -- not leaving future generations to pay our bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 8 , legislation that unwisely imperils our nation 's financial security in order to advance the interests of an elite few .  since my election to congress , i have consistently advocated for reasonable estate tax reform .  estate tax reform is extremely important for all the people in the 15th district of california .  high real estate values and generous stock option packages have pushed many estates over exemption limits .  as a result , too many of my santa clara county constituents have been burdened by an estate tax that was originally written to affect only the very wealthiest americans .  the estate tax needs to be modified to protect hardworking americans and their heirs .  in keeping with this spirit , i intend to support a democratic alternative to h.r. 8 that will benefit almost all americans .  offered by representative earl pomeroy , the democratic substitute will increase the estate tax exemption to $ 3 million for individuals and $ 6 million for married couples effective january 1 , 2006 with a scheduled increase in 2009 .  under this plan , 99.7 percent of all estates would have no estate tax liability .  the republican majority has put forward a more expensive plan to benefit the three-tenths of one percent not covered by the democratic substitute .  their plan comes at a significant cost .  once fully in effect , h.r. 8 will cost $ 1 trillion over 10 years .  this astronomical price tag will exacerbate record federal deficits and undermine our nation 's ability to strengthen key federal priorities , including social security , medicare , education programs and veterans health care .  h.r. 8 may also harm more taxpayers than it would help .  current income tax law provides for a `` step-up '' in the basis of an inherited asset to its fair market value at the time of decedent 's death .  when the heir sells the asset , the capital gain for income tax purposes is measured by the difference between the heir 's selling price and the stepped-up basis of the asset .  h.r. 8 repeals the step-up basis and substitutes carryover basis rules in which the capital gain would be measured by the difference between heir 's selling price and the asset 's cost at the time when the decedent acquired it .  as a result , all estates with gross assets over $ 1.3 million would face reporting requirements and tax liabilities potentially more burdensome than under current law .  while i am deeply concerned with the problems surrounding the estate tax , and believe that substantial , long-term reform is needed , permanent repeal for all estates is not necessary to resolve these issues .  given our nation 's challenges , i can not support the republican 's fiscally irresponsible approach to this issue .  i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 8 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i was very interested in the last presentation .  the bottom line was , he did not pay a tax .  all that story , all those facts , and he did not pay a tax .  he did pay his accountant some money to go through and make sure that he was doing what was right .  he did that because the tax code is extraordinarily complicated and has been made 25 percent more complicated by the republican majority over just the last 48 months .  mr. speaker , let us be absolutely crystal clear : this republican proposal is nothing but a tax increase .  hear me , this is a tax increase disguised as a tax cut .  `` who are you , mr. hoyer ?  lewis carroll ?  what is this gibberish that you are talking about ?  `` it would raise taxes for thousands of families and thousands of family farmers and small businesses .  there are no two ways about it .  for years , house republicans have proclaimed that the elimination of the inheritance tax , a tax , now hear me on this side of the aisle , i know you want to hear this , a tax first proposed by theodore roosevelt in 1906 .  now for those of you who may not be quite fully cognizant of our history , theodore roosevelt , of course , was a republican president of the united states of america .  it was intended to save family farms and small businesses .  but , today , not according to the gentleman from maryland ( mr. hoyer )  , not according to the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  , not according to all the democrats in this house or in the senate , according to the republican department of agriculture , i tell my friend from missouri , the republican department of agriculture says more farm estates would have increased tax liability from the carryover basis rules in this bill than would benefit from repeal of the inheritance tax .  in other words , if we pass this bill , family farmers and small businesses are going to pay more taxes .  now , i am for the pomeroy alternative .  first of all , we do not have that complicated look-back to find out what the basis was 10 , 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 years ago .  we do as we do now , what is the basis now when you get it ?  but we exempt under the substitute offered by the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  $ 7 million .  that means that 99.7 percent of the people in america would never pay an estate tax .  i am for that .  so this argument , i tell my friend from missouri , is about the three-tenths of 1 percent of the very largest estates in america .  because if you vote for pomeroy , 99.7 percent are exempt .  so , as we have been doing for the last 4 years , we have been talking about the upper 1 percent .  that is who we are talking about .  now we are pretty well off in congress .  the american people do pretty well by us , very frankly .  i am doing well enough .  i paid a little bit of alternative minimum tax this year .  it shocked me , but my accountant pointed out that i did .  so we are doing pretty well .  but there are a whole lot of people that are not doing nearly as well as we are doing , and we are not helping them at all by simply giving away revenue that we could spend on the education of their kids and the defense of their country , which we are borrowing for , of course , so that their kids will pay the debts .  mr. speaker , under current law , the joint economic committee estimates that only 7 , 500 estates , in a nation of 290 million people where some 3 million people die every year , 7 , 500 estates out of the 3 million people that die would have any estate tax liability in 2009 .  however , the permanent switch to carryover basis rules , rules that are used to calculate cap gains , would impact an estimated 71 , 000 additional estates , and many of those estates would face capital gains tax increases .  now even as this bill increases the capital gains tax on many farm estates and small businesses , i tell my friend , it still adheres to what seems to be the republican party 's core economic principle : fiscal irresponsibility .  the gentleman says this tax , that tax , and he is right .  there are a lot of taxes on all of us , and we have a lot of services in this country .  and , frankly , for the most part , as the gentleman knows , particularly if you take the industrialized nations , our tax structure at the federal level is lower .  but , still , they are high , and we would like to see them reduced .  but the fact of the matter is , i have three children , three daughters , they are wonderful people , and they provided me with three grandchildren .  and i am buying stuff .  i am buying defense against terrorists , i am buying stabilizing iraq , i am buying education , i am buying health care , i am buying roads .  all of us are buying that .  i do not want to have to say to my grandchildren , look , i am going to use it , but you pay for it .  that is an immoral policy as well as a fiscally irresponsible one , an unwillingness to pay our bills .  now , this is $ 290 billion .  just $ 29 billion a year over 10 years .  no sweat .  shoot , we are borrowing all the social security money right now that the republicans said they were not going to spend a nickel of .  they are going to spend $ 170 billion of social security money this year alone .  how do we do that ?  we borrowed $ 118 billion last february , from foreigners mostly , which we are putting our kids deeply in hock to china , to japan , to germany .  at a time of record budget deficits of nearly half a trillion dollars , this republican bill would cost nearly $ 1 trillion over the first 10 years of full repeal .  it would irresponsibly drive our nation even further into debt and immorally force our children to continue to be liable for our bills .  in sharp contrast , i tell my friend from missouri , and i wish there were more people on this floor , but it is only giving away , you know , $ 250 billion to $ 1 trillion .  what do we care ?  we have given away trillions of dollars over the last 4 years as we go trillions of dollars into debt .  as a matter of fact , $ 9 trillion into debt .  the substitute offered by the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  is excellent .  it costs less than one-third of this republican bill .  it would permanently increase the current exclusion amounts to $ 3.5 million per individual and $ 7 million for couples .  three-tenths of the estates would be left in 2009 and , as a result , exempt 99.7 percent of all estates from estate tax liability .  mr. speaker , i congratulate the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  for this alternative .  it solves the problems of small farmers , it solves the problems of small businesses , it solves the problems of pretty significant but nevertheless smaller estates , to make sure that the hard work of mom and dad can be passed along to their daughter and their son and their son 's and daughter 's families .  we agree with the gentleman from missouri ( mr. hulshof )  that that is a good objective , but we also agree that we ought to have fiscally responsible policies .  mr. speaker , i ask my friend , whose debt is it ?  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 202 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 8 ) to make the repeal of the estate tax permanent , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h.r. 8 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 minutes .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the fact that we are here today poised to pass h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  on behalf of the lead democratic sponsor , my colleague , the gentleman from alabama ( mr. cramer )  , as well as the over 200 bipartisan members who have co-sponsored this bill , i am pleased that we are poised to pass in this body this commonsense legislation .  i would like to talk about a couple of constituents , particularly a constituent named howard effert who is a resident of columbia , missouri , who in 1965 began a lumber yard business there in columbia .  he contributed $ 100 , which was a very modest contribution , as he had three young children to provide for with a modest wage .  he had the idea and a desire for a new venture even though many within the community felt this venture would be unsuccessful , but yet his partners helped him provide the financial assistance and of course some valuable mentoring to help him open the doors to this lumber business .  fast forward now 40 years .  his two sons , brad and greg , are running the day-to-day operations of the business .  of course , they want this family business that has been in their family since its modest beginnings in 1965 to be able to be passed on pursuant to the american dream , that is , to create a legacy , to help your children be better off than you were .  yet the effert family today , mr. speaker , has to write a check for $ 1 , 000 a week , $ 52 , 036 to be precise , to purchase a term life insurance policy , the proceeds of which will be to pay the federal government on that inevitable day that howard effert passes from this world to the next .  in 2001 we passed historic legislation that let all income tax payers keep a little bit more of what they earned , and this historic legislation included a repeal of the federal death tax which was a top tax priority for a lot of small business and family farm groups .  thus under current law , the death tax is gradually phased out between now and 2010 .  this is accomplished by increasing the exemption from the tax .  currently it is $ 1.5 million shielded from this very confiscatory tax , and at the same time we chip away at that top rate , which was as high as 55 percent , and in fact , in a few isolated instances as high as 60 percent tax .  we now chip that away , and it is currently 47 percent .  unfortunately , as we know , the death tax does not stay dead and buried .  as things now stand , it will rise from the grave in 2011 , and it will revert to its form prior to 2001 .  now , this quirk in the law can be directly attributed to the senate 's byrd rule , which applies to the consideration of reconciliation bills .  as a matter of basic fairness , we must permanently repeal the death tax .  the death of a family member quite simply should not be a taxable event .  and if it was good policy when we enacted it in 2001 , it remains a good idea today .  let me touch briefly on some policy rationales for finishing this unfinished work .  the death tax is fundamentally unfair .  by its very structure , the tax punishes thrift , savings , and hard work .  conversely , the tax forces taxpayers to engage in a host of economically inefficient activities to avoid the very punitive nature of the tax .  not only does this have a very real effect on taxpayers and their behavior but a negative impact on the economy .  with a tax like the death tax , a family business or farm has no choice but to divert these precious resources , as in the case of the effert family , to plan financially for the financial impact for the tax : money that could be used to expand the business , to purchase a forklift , to bring another person on the payroll , whatever is in the best interest of that business .  instead , this money is diverted in anticipation of this very punitive tax .  now , supporters of retaining the death tax will claim that perhaps redistribution of income promotes economic fairness and social responsibility .  we will get to have that debate .  i respectfully disagree .  instead of rewarding savings and investment , this tax actually rewards those who spend lavishly and leave no ongoing business interest or assets to the next generation .  i am mindful of the bumper sticker that i saw recently traveling missouri 's highways on a big recreational vehicle that says `` i am spending my children 's inheritance. '' if you wanted to give some good estate tax advice to someone that has put together some assets to pass along , it would be simply to consume it .  yet as we talk about some sort of tax reform and perhaps a consumption tax , this tax actually focuses on non-consumption and on thrift and savings .  for that and for a variety of reasons , we will have the opportunity , i hope , in a good debate , in a civil discourse .  i think we should permanently repeal the death tax .  we should enact h.r. 8 .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  i am sure the gentleman from michigan misspoke , and i am certain it was inadvertent .  the bill , h.r. 8 , actually does allow for a step up in basis of $ 3 million for a surviving spouse and another $ 1.3 million for surviving heirs .  if the intent of the legislation , which it is , is to help family businesses be passed from one generation to the next and the surviving heirs choose not to farm or continue the family business , then they are the ones making the taxable decision to dispose of assets that would be subject to a 15 percent capital gains rate but certainly not the 45 percent estate tax .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , among the many groups that support h.r. 8 , including the national federation of independent business , which is the voice of small business , there are many minority owners of small businesses that also support complete repeal .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would remind the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. neal )  as he mentions iraq and afghanistan that the budgetary impact of h.r. 8 is really not felt until the year 2011 and beyond .  mr. speaker , i certainly respect my friend from tennessee and i trust he will bring that passion to the floor when we have our discussion on our spending bills .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i appreciate in large measure the tone of the debate .  what i would say to the gentlewoman who just spoke and to others who raised the red herring of social security is to remind folks , first of all , the federal receipts from the federal death tax represent less than 1.5 percent of all revenues , first of all ; and , secondly , that none of the income tax money generated from the estate tax goes to social security for the trust funds , and eliminating the tax in no way will affect or impact current social security benefits .  not one bit .  now , i do want to respond .  i heard , i think , the gentleman from massachusetts earlier say that really there has been no policy justification for keeping this tax , other than we need the money .  in fact , i think one gentleman said something , from massachusetts , about we need to pay our fair share .  well , let me just ask you to consider your day .  when you woke up this morning , if you hit the snooze button on your electric alarm clock , you are paying an electric tax .  when you jumped into the shower this morning , you paid a water tax .  if you saw the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  and i on c-span debating this issue this morning , you are paying a cable tv tax .  when you drove to work this morning , you are paying a gasoline tax .  if you stopped for a cup of coffee , you paid a sales tax .  if you used the telephone at all today , you are paying a telephone tax .  and , of course , when you are at work , your wages are subject to a payroll tax that does go into social security , payroll taxes that do pay for medicare , not to mention your income taxes .  if you drive home to your home and you are lucky enough and fortunate enough to own a home , you are probably paying a local property tax .  when you kiss your spouse good night , you think that is free .  no , leave it to the federal government to continue to have this thing called the marriage tax .  and , yes , if you scrape and invest and save and you build a family business , have the audacity to pursue the american dream , the federal government is there with its hand out saying give us 45 percent of the value of your family business .  now i have heard from my colleagues on the other side who say that family farms are not affected .  well , then let me tell you a very quick personal story , a story of a farm family in missouri , a young married couple who in 1956 left portageville , missouri , in the district of the gentlewoman from missouri ( mrs. emerson )  , with $ 1 , 000 in their pocket , and that was going to be the stake that they had .  it happened that the woman was an expectant mother with her first child and , as it turned out , her only child .  that married couple happened to be my parents , and over the last 2 1/2 years i have had the unfortunate reality that obviously death is inevitable , and i have had the unfortunate experience in our family of having both my father pass away in late 2002 and my mother one year ago .  i do not mind sharing with you , a 514 acre farm , a modest life insurance policy , the house that i grew up in , a combine , three tractors and some irrigation equipment , and that is it .  and i am sitting across the mahogany desk from our long-time family accountant with the adding machine with a tape on it , and he is plugging in an arbitrary value for these assets that my parents invested their soul into .  and i am breaking out into a cold sweat wondering whether or not this business that they built and wanted to pass on is going to fall above an arbitrary line or below an arbitrary line that we in congress have set .  now we did not have to pay the tax , but 14 days ago i had the requirement of filling out the form and paying the $ 2 , 000 accountant fee ; and , again , i do not quarrel with that .  but , mr. speaker , the death of a family member should not be a taxable event , period .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote for h.r. 8 .  mr. speaker , i claim the time in opposition .  mr. speaker , just a quick comment for whatever time i may consume before yielding to the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. barrett )  .  did i hear the last speaker correctly , that we have given away , whose money is that ?  it would be the american taxpayers ' money , who are probably , even as we speak , trying to grapple with those forms as they have tax day coming , as the income tax payers of america that provide for the comfortable living that he and i enjoy .  mr. speaker , i would say to my friend , and of course , as we have had a lot of unforeseen circumstances that have occurred , as was mentioned earlier , iraq and afghanistan .  and let us hope and pray that as permanent repeal occurs , if it occurs , in the outyears that we will not be in that war on terrorism .  but i would say to my friend , and i appreciate the question , but he also mentioned the department of agriculture , and lest , mr. speaker , anyone wonder who those agricultural groups are that represent farm families across america , i would place into the record a letter from said groups .  in essence , the letter reads as follows : the groups listed below support permanent estate tax repeal , ask for this body to vote for h.r. 8 , and the letter goes on to say , individuals and families own virtually all of the farms and ranches that dot america 's rural landscape .  death taxes threaten the transfer of these operations to the next generation of food and fiber producers .  sincerely , alabama farmers federation , american farm bureau federation , american sheep industry association , the american soybean association , farm credit council , national association of wheat growers ; to my friend from north dakota , national cattlemen 's beef association , national corn growers association , national cotton council , national grain sorghum producers , national milk producers federation , national potato council , usa rice producers federation , u.s. rice producers association , and the western peanut growers association .  april 13 , 2005 .  dear representative : the groups listed below support permanent estate tax repeal and ask you to vote for h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  individuals and families own virtually all of the farms and ranches that dot america 's rural landscape .  death taxes threaten the transfer of these operations to the next generation of food and fiber producers .  in 2001 , congress recognized the harm that death taxes cause family businesses and voted to repeal this onerous tax .  unfortunately , repeal scheduled for 2010 is temporary and sunsets after only one year .  congress should act now to make death tax repeal permanent .  please show your support for permanent death tax repeal by voting for h.r. 8 when the bill reaches the house floor this week .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentleman just indicated that the pomeroy substitute solves the problem once and for all , and i have listened to a number of individuals on the other side during the course of this discussion that this is only going to affect the superwealthy and that really there are no family businesses that are affected by the estate tax .  it has been interesting , because some of those comments have come from colleagues of mine on the committee on ways and means .  mr. speaker , we have had a number of hearings going back to at least , from my memory , 1997 .  so i will mention some of these folks who have come and testified in front of the committee on ways and means .  martin whalen testified about his family-owned and -operated company , etline foods corporation , a distributor of food service products in york , pennsylvania .  when they purchased the business , 48 employees ; in 1997 , 105 employees .  rhetorically , i would say to my friend from north dakota , will this solve their problem ?  wayne nelson , a farmer from winner , south dakota .  his father farmed until his father 's death in 1993 .  their estate planning was inadequate .  several parcels of land in south dakota were liquidated in order to pay the federal tax .  will the substitute rectify that situation ?  what about roger hannay of hannay reels , incorporated , a small manufacturer in the foothills of the catskill mountains about 25 miles from albany , new york , a small manufacturer employing 150 employees ?  what about richard forrestal , jr. , a principal in cold spring construction , a firm specializing in highway and bridge construction ?  what about douglas stinson , a tree farmer from toledo , washington , that runs the cowlitz ridge tree farm ?  each of these testified , mr. speaker , that they were impacted negatively by the existence of the death tax .  what about carol loop , jr. , president of luke 's nursery and greenhouses , a wholesale plant nursery operation in jacksonville , florida ?  he started his business with a $ 1 , 500 loan and a borrowed truck .  would the problem be solved with the pomeroy substitute ?  or christopher and kimberly clements of golden eagle distributors in tucson , arizona .  they lost their father unexpectedly after a valiant bout with cancer .  he lost his life at the age of 58 .  or jeannine mizell , a third-generation owner of mizell lumber and hardware company of kensington , maryland .  what about robert sakata , a vegetable farmer from brighton , colorado , or jean stinson , a railroad track manufacturing company in barto , florida , running the r. w. summers railroad contractors ?  their family had to shut down a facility in north carolina , laying off two-thirds of the 110 employees to pay the estate tax .  or jack cakebread , founder of cakebread cellars in napa valley , california .  would each of these individuals be solved or their estate problems solved by the substitute ?  it is a rhetorical question , and the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  knows it , and i do not mean to put him on the spot , but he can not answer the question because when we draw a line , an arbitrary line , wherever we draw that line , we still are going to have those entrepreneurs that have been willing to invest in their businesses , hire employees , build local communities ; and as long as the death tax remains in existence , they are going to have to do some sort of estate planning .  i think it is much the better course to completely and finally permanently repeal the tax .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  as the gentleman from north dakota recognizes ; and , again , i do not think he meant to misspeak , but the underlying bill , h.r. 8 , does provide a step up in basis of $ 3 million for the surviving spouse and a $ 1.3 million step up in basis for surviving heirs .  mr. speaker , many have worked on the death tax repeal and going back even to the , i think , family heritage preservation act of 1993 .  the gentleman from california introduced that bill and i think had 29 cosponsors .  now , of course , we are over 200 on permanent repeal .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , notwithstanding the gentleman 's props , i would commend to him for his reading leisurely `` the economics of the estate tax : an update , '' a joint economic committee study dated june 2003 which in essence states the estate tax raises very little , if any , net revenue because of distortionary effects of the estate resulting in income tax losses roughly the same size as the revenue collected .  secondly , estate taxes force the development of environmentally sensitive land .  through 2001 , 2.6 million acres of forest land were harvested and 1.3 million acres were sold every year to raise funds to pay the estate tax .  regarding his criticism on philanthropy , the estate tax according to the joint economic committee study , the estate tax may actually be one of the greatest obstacles to charitable giving as estate taxes crowd out charitable bequests .  mr. speaker , i have no further requests for time , and i can assure my friend i will not use the entire 14 minutes to close .  mr. speaker , who has the right to close ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from washington ( miss mcmorris ) , a newly elected member from the state of washington .  miss mcmorris .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the opportunity to address the house today on this very important piece of legislation , the repeal of the death tax and making it permanent .  the repeal of the death tax is one of the first bills that i was honored to place my name on as a cosponsor .  growing up on a family farm in eastern washington , i have seen firsthand the negative impacts the death tax has on our families and our businesses .  one of my top priorities in congress is to grow jobs and expand the economy in the pacific northwest .  i believe that the repeal of the death tax will help accomplish this goal , especially for the farmers and small businesses in my district .  the death tax costs thousands of jobs each year ; and by repealing this unnecessary tax , jobs will be created and many small business owners will be able to add workers to their payrolls .  as a member who represents a significant farming sector , i have seen the death tax destroy some family farms .  without a doubt , death taxes hurt our farmers and our ranchers by forcing family farms to sell land , buildings or equipment needed to operate their business in order to pay for this excessive tax .  some family farmers have had to take out a second mortgage on their home to pay for the tax .  when farms and ranches shut down , so do the businesses they support , leaving many out of work and leading to a depressed rural economy .  the time is now to end the death tax .  i support the passage of h.r. 8 in order to end this unjust , unfair , and inefficient tax burden on our families , businesses and especially our farming communities .  mr. speaker , benjamin franklin noted over 200 years ago that `` in this world nothing can be said to be certain , except death and taxes. '' unfortunately , the convergence of these two inescapable events , in the form of the federal estate tax , results in a number of destructive outcomes in terms of slower economic growth , reduced social mobility , and wasted productive activity .  moreover , the costs imposed by the estate tax far outweigh any benefits that the tax might produce .  for these reasons , among others , i urge my colleagues to join with me in support of permanent repeal of the federal estate tax .  the estate tax has been enacted four times in our nation 's history -- each time in response to the exigent financial straits deriving from war .  in three of those instances ( 1797-1802 , 1862-70 , and 1898-1902 ) , the estate tax was repealed shortly thereafter .  most recently , the estate tax was reintroduced during world war i ( 1916 ) and has existed ever since .  what was meant to bring short-term budgetary relief has become a permanent burden on america 's farmers , small business owners and families .  some observers might believe that the estate tax is free from serious controversy .  for example , it is often claimed that the tax only falls on the `` rich '' and thus serves to reduce income inequality .  other supporters of the estate tax point to the $ 22 billion in tax revenues for 2003 , or to the incentive for charitable bequests .  nonetheless , there are many reasons to question the value of taxing the accumulated savings of productive , entrepreneurial citizens .  not the least of these reasons is the widely-held belief that families who work hard and accumulate savings should not be punished for sound budgeting .  additionally , it is unclear whether the estate tax raises any revenue at all , since most if not all of its receipts are offset by losses under the income tax .  the freedom to attain prosperity and accumulate wealth is the basis of the `` american dream. '' we are taught that through hard work we can achieve that dream and , god willing , pass it on to our children .  unfortunately , for many the estate tax turns that dream into a nightmare .  the current tax treatment of a person 's life accumulations is so onerous that when one dies , the children are often forced to turn over half of their inheritance to the federal government .  the estate tax , which is imposed at an alarming 45 to 47 percent rate , is higher than in any other industrialized nation in the world except japan .  thus , many families must watch their loved one 's legacy being snatched away by the federal government at an agonizing time .  this is tragically wrong and nullifies the hard work of those who have passed on .  in the minority community there are numerous examples of the injurious effects of the estate tax .  the chicago daily defender -- the oldest african american-owned daily newspaper in the united states -- is a good example of the unique problem presented for minority families .  it was forced into bankruptcy due to financial burdens imposed by the estate tax .  but , beyond that , the questions were -- was the chicago defender family forced to sell , could a minority owner be found to purchase it , or would it become a white-owned asset , reducing the overall wealth of the african american community ?  on a smaller scale , another potential victim , a storeowner named leonard l. harris who is a first generation owner of chatham food center on the south side of chicago is frightened that all the work and value he has put into his business will be for naught because it will be stripped from his two sons .  according to mr. harris , `` my focus has been putting my earnings back into growing the business .  for this reason , cash resources to pay federal estate taxes , based on the way valuation is made , would force my family to sell the store in order to pay the irs within 9 months of my death .  our yearly earnings would not cover the payment of such a high tax .  i should know .  i started my career as a cpa. '' these two stories are not isolated .  according to the life insurance marketing research association , less than half of all family-owned businesses survive the death of a founder and only about 5 percent survive to the third generation .  another recent study found the following : eight out of ten minority business owners questioned believe the federal estate tax is unfair .  only one minority business owner in three has been able to take any steps whatsoever to prepare for the ramifications of the estate tax .  one in four believes that his or her heirs will be forced to sell off at least part of their businesses to pay the estate tax liability .  fully half the respondents already know a minority-owned business that has had trouble paying the tax , including some that have been forced to liquidate .  those few minority-owned businesses that have been able to take steps to reduce their estate tax liability complain that it has detracted from their ability to meet business objectives by channeling time , energy and resources away from productive endeavors .  many of my colleagues who are proponents of the estate tax contend that the tax adds progressivity to the tax code and provides needed tax revenue .  they argue that the estate tax falls on wealthier and higher income individuals and increases the total tax paid by this segment of the population relative to their income .  this helps offset the regressivity of payroll taxes and excise taxes , which fall more heavily on low-income groups relative to their income .  they also argue that increasing the unified credit to $ 4 , $ 5 , $ 6 or $ 7 million would remove small family-owned businesses and farms from the harsh impact of the estate tax .  i share my colleagues concerns about protecting the tax base and ensuring that our tax code remains progressive .  however , i find these arguments in support of the estate tax unconvincing in the face of substantial evidence otherwise .  first , there is no clear evidence that the estate tax is progressive or that larger estates are paying a greater portion of the tax .  wealthier members of our society are able to reduce and or eliminate the impact of the estate tax by stuffing money away here and there at the suggestion of high-priced attorneys and accountants .  similarly , tax planning techniques such as gift tax exclusions or valuation discounts reduce the size of the gross estate but do not appear in the irs data causing effective tax rates to be overstated for many larger estates .  the institute for policy innovation recently revealed evidence of this fact in a study showing that the effective tax rate on the most valuable estates was actually lower than that on medium-sized estates .  second , the insignificant amount of money the estate tax raises for the federal government can not justify the harmful effects it has on business owners who spend more to avoid the tax than the federal tax revenue raised .  according to the president 's fiscal year 2005 budget , the estate and gift tax brought in $ 22.8 billion in revenues to the federal government in 2003 .  this represents less than 1.1 percent of the total revenues out of a more than $ 2 trillion federal budget and less than the amount of money spent complying with , or trying to circumvent , the death tax .  in 2003 , congress ' joint economic committee reported that the death tax brought in $ 22 billion in annual revenue , but cost the private sector another $ 22 billion in compliance costs .  therefore , the total impact on the economy was a staggering $ 44 billion .  and , when one calculates the amount of money spent on complying with the tax , the number of lost jobs resulting from businesses being sold , or the resources directed away from business expansion and into estate planning , it is clear why this punitive tax must be eliminated .  it is also important to note that many economists believe that overall tax revenues would increase if the estate tax were repealed .  according to a study of estate tax repeal proposals , which was prepared by dr .  allen sinai for american council for capital formation and center for policy research , federal tax receipts would rise in response to a stronger economy , feeding back 20 cents of every dollar of estate tax reduction .  in fact , over the years 2001 to 2008 , estate tax repeal would increase real gross domestic product by $ 90 billion to $ 150 billion , and u.s. employment by 80 , 000 to 165 , 000 .  finally , it is not clear that increasing the unified credit to $ 6 or $ 7 million would remove small family-owned businesses and farms from the threat of the estate tax .  the small business administration 's definition of a small business is based on industry size standards .  for example , a construction company or grocery store with less than $ 27.5 million in annual receipts is considered a small business .  thus , families who build their businesses past the exemption amount will continue to face estate taxes that range from the aforementioned , alarming rate of 45 to 47 percent .  the exemption threshold would not help these small businesses .  more significantly , without significant reform or , more appropriately , repeal , these same small businesses face the prospect of estate tax rates as high as 60 percent beginning in 2011 .  permanent repeal of the estate tax will provide american families with fairness in our tax system and remove the perverse incentive that makes it is cheaper for an individual to sell the business prior to death and pay the individual capital gains rate than pass it on to heirs .  but for minorities , it provides much more .  it will allow wealth created in one generation to be passed on to the next thereby establishing sustainable minority communities through better jobs and education , better healthcare , and safer communities .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 8 to permanently repeal the federal estate tax and to restore fairness to our nation 's tax code .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of making estate tax relief permanent so that family-owned farms and businesses can be passed down from generation to generation .  the estate tax should be updated and modernized to reflect both the economic growth many americans have experienced in recent years , and the hard work of millions of entrepreneurs and those just trying to make a living .  these businesses should not be punished for being successful or for simply having their owners pass away .  the united states is the land of opportunity , encouraging free enterprise and rewarding entrepreneurs .  the estate tax should be modified to protect family-owned small businesses and family farms from the threat of having to be sold just to pay the tax .  but , mr. speaker , h.r. 8 would fully repeal the estate tax for all americans at a time when the administration is running record deficits that threaten the futures of our children 's children .  as we all know , the estate tax applies to fewer than 2 percent of all estates , about 50 , 000 a year .  this bill would initially cost the nation 's treasury $ 290 billion over 10 years .  this year alone , our budget deficit will exceed $ 400 billion .  this administration has turned a projected $ 5.6 trillion surplus over ten years into deficits totalling $ 2.6 trillion .  however , even with these record deficits , we are debating yet another tax cut .  with the majority 's policies leading our nation toward a fiscal train wreck , we should not be talking about totally repealing the death tax and instead talk about doing something about the debt tax , which falls upon all americans .  therefore , i am supporting the substitute being offered by my good friend mr. pomeroy .  his legislation will immediately help the small businesses and family farms by increasing the estate tax exemption to $ 3 million for individuals and $ 6 million for couples .  this meaningful , common-sense bill will exempt 99.7 percent of all estates from the estate tax .  under current law , the tax basis for inherited property is `` stepped up '' to its value at transfer through 2009 , which helps farmers and small business owners who inherit property by reducing the amount of capital gains taxes to which the property is subject .  under current law , in 2010 , `` carry-over '' basis rules ( with a $ 1.3 million exemption ) replace the `` stepped-up '' basis rules , creating burdensome mr. speaker , it is our responsibility to avoid towering deficits and reduce the debt future generations will inherit .  we must give them the capability and flexibility to meet whatever problems or needs they face .  i can not , in good faith , support legislation that will put our country further into deficit spending with a tax cut that will hurt future generations for the unforeseeable future .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this legislation because the current system needs reform to protect those people truly in need of debt relief , while holding accountable those who can repay their debt .  bankruptcy filings have risen steadily in recent years , an indication that our current system is an ineffective one that discourages consumers from saving and planning responsibly and ultimately is n't good for consumers , families , or a society that values individual responsibility .  i believe bankruptcy should be a last resort -- one that allows people who need protection to receive it and people who can repay all or some of their debts to do so .  the system in place now gives incentives to people in trouble and encourages them to steamroll headfirst into chapter 7 liquidation of all their debts , even when they could get back on their feet through a reasonable repayment plan or basic credit counseling .  while s. 256 is not a perfect bill , i do believe it goes great lengths in addressing the growing problem of bankruptcy in this country .  i believe there is great misunderstanding about what this bill does and who will be affected .  only those earning above the median income and who have the ability to pay will be required to pay back their debt .  however , millionaires who use bankruptcy law as a method of financial planning will no longer be able to buy extravagantly and subsequently have all of their debt written off .  it is also important to note that many families and small businesses will benefit because of changes to this law .  bankruptcy costs are passed on to other consumers , and the average family pays hundreds of dollars each year in higher prices .  additionally , small businesses that might otherwise not be paid for their goods or services will have a better chance of gaining compensation as a result of this bill .  a very positive aspect of s. 256 is that it makes permanent chapter 12 of the bankruptcy code .  i , along with other members of congress , have been working for years to make permanent this much-needed source of relief for our family farmers .  there have been accusations that this bill will be detrimental to the most needy ; in fact , there are a great deal of safeguards .  s. 256 includes protections ensuring that alimony and child support payments are made .  i believe single parents and dependent children need our help far more than millionaires who benefit from current bankruptcy laws .  additionally , families who have exorbitant medical bills they can not afford can still file for chapter 7 , and judges will still have a great deal of discretion when it comes to the issue of means-testing .  in addition , this legislation will create new disclosure requirements for lending institutions to provide better information to consumers about credit cards and debt .  this is particularly important for young adults who are bombarded by credit applications and have limited knowledge about the risks that accompany credit card ownership .  it is important to note that this legislation is only the first step in addressing the bigger problems underlying savings in this country .  with an over-reliance on credit cards and a lack of saving for retirement , too many americans find themselves on shaky financial ground .  addressing this problem must be our next goal , and we must encourage more personal responsibility in consumers .  the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act will benefit consumers and provide all americans with better access to credit .  it helps prevent abuse of the system while providing debt protection to those who truly need it .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i am proud to vote in favor of s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  this important bill brings needed reforms to our nation 's bankruptcy system .  the legislation reduces the unfair disparity of treatment in the bankruptcy system by establishing more uniform and predictable standards .  i am particularly pleased to note the compromise reached on healthcare and employee benefits .  this legislation takes great strides to protect patients ' rights , and it encourages debtors and trustees to consider patients ' interests when administering healthcare bankruptcy cases .  patients are given a voice through the appointment of an ombudsman , who advocates for the confidentiality of patients ' records and ensures patients are transferred to appropriate facilities .  these are critical provisions that protect the rights of those with failing health .  i would like to commend a constituent from my district for his contributions to this legislation , keith j. shapiro , esq. , of northbrook , illinois , and his colleague nancy a. peterman , esq .  mr. shapiro testified in support of these patient health provisions before the u.s. senate committee on the judiciary subcommittee on administrative oversight and the courts on june 1 , 1998 .  the passing of this legislation marks the culmination of mr. shapiro and ms. peterman 's tireless efforts to protect patients ' interests in bankruptcy cases .  on behalf of my colleagues in congress , i offer my sincere gratitude for their dedication to fair bankruptcy policy .  mr. speaker , almost half of the bankruptcies in the united states are connected to an illness in the family , whether people had health insurance or not .  middle-class americans , who had the misfortune of either experiencing a medical emergency themselves or watching a family member suffer , were then forced to face the daunting task of pulling themselves out of debt .  bankruptcy law has allowed them to start over .  it has given hope .  now this new law will put people on their own .  illness or emergency creates medical bills .  we are telling the people that they themselves are to blame .  at the same time , we are removing protections that would stay an eviction , that would keep a roof over the head of a working family .  we allow the credit industry to trick consumers into using subprime cards , with exorbitant interest rate hikes and fees .  then we hand those same consumers over today i rise in support of the pomeroy substitute to h.r. 8 , the estate tax repeal permanency act , and in opposition to the underlying bill .  as the son of a small business owner , i know firsthand the tax burden placed on entrepreneurs and working families , and i support efforts to responsibly protect small business owners .  the pomeroy substitute provides needed relief by eliminating estate taxes for assets totaling $ 3.5 million per individual or $ 7 million per married couple .  increasing the exemption to this level would mean that 99.7 percent of all estates will not pay a single penny of the estate tax .  small businesses and farm owners should not be penalized for their success , nor should they need to worry about their ability to pass the family business on to future generations , and the substitute addresses these concerns .  h.r. 8 goes far beyond providing fair tax relief to small businesses and family farms .  while the benefits overwhelmingly go to the wealthiest 0.3 percent of estates , republican leaders fail to mention that their proposal actually raises taxes on thousands of estates , including those not previously affected by the estate tax .  this is because their legislation increases capital gain taxes owed on inherited property .  the department of agriculture estimates that this change will raise taxes on more farms than would benefit from repealing the tax .  the republicans ' call for repealing the estate tax comes at a time when our government is already in fiscal crisis .  ending the estate tax will reduce revenues by $ 290 billion over ten years , and by 2021 , this legislation will have added a total of more than $ 1 trillion to our debt .  with a $ 400 billion deficit projected this year , now is not the time to add trillions in debt to the tab that future generations must pay .  these added costs also come as the president proposes to privatize social security at a cost of up to $ 6 trillion .  in addition , the house recently passed a budget that cuts $ 20 billion from medicare and underfunds critical priorities including veterans ' health care and homeland security .  we must work to meet our existing obligations rather than cutting taxes for the wealthiest 0.3 percent of families in america .  based on internal revenue service data for 2004 , out of approximately 10 , 000 deaths in my home state , only 312 rhode island decedents filed estate tax returns .  this number would be much lower with the $ 3.5 million exemption under the pomeroy substitute .  under our democratic alternative , most small business owners and family farmers would receive estate tax relief .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting permanent reform of the estate tax , but not irresponsibly repealing it .  our small business owners are in need of relief , and we must provide it without leaving future generations to pay the bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , it is fascinating if you would think if there was a proposal in the substitute to eliminate the whole list of taxes that the gentleman referred to , but i have never heard one case where they have talked about eliminating any tax , only increasing taxes .  so it is quite an interesting debate .  let me just say , i come to this as someone who grew up in a family farm operation , a family small business .  i can tell you firsthand from real life , honest experience the effect that the death tax has on families and creating jobs and opportunities and being able to continue what i believe is the american dream , and that is to have an opportunity for your children and your grandchildren to continue a life that you love and cherish .  nothing stands in the way more for families and small businesses to be successful , to continue , than the death tax .  we spend thousands and thousands of dollars every year as a way to try and avoid what the death tax will do to us .  it is morally wrong that the day you die , your heirs should not only see the undertaker but have to go see the tax man to see how much the federal government is going to take away from a lifetime of work .  the idea , while the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  , i have the greatest respect for him , but the idea of continuing an immoral tax that destroys family , destroys family businesses , i have seen neighbors who have lost everything they have , lost generations of work on a family farm because of the death tax .  it is a fact that nothing is more harmful , nothing is more hurtful than a tax that takes away the hope of the american dream .  this country is based on farms , on small businesses .  that is the lifeblood of this nation , and nothing destroys it more than the death tax ; and that is why we have to kill this death tax to make sure that we can experience the american dream in this country .  mr. speaker , this bill hurts americans .  one group who will be especially hurt are family forced into bankruptcy because of a medical crisis .  a recent study conducted by professors at harvard medical and law school showed that about half of all personal bankruptcies can be attributed to medical costs .  among those who cited illnesses as a cause of bankruptcy , the average unreimbursed medical costs totaled nearly $ 12 , 000 even though more than three-quarters had health insurance .  how does the bill hurt the families ?  under the bill for the first time there will be a presumption that many of these families abuse the bankruptcy system .  under current law , people facing a medical bankruptcy can seek several forms of relief .  chapter 7 is by far the most common .  under 7 debtors are required to forfeit all of their property other than the exempt assets in exchange for having their debts extinguished .  current law already gives bankruptcy courts discretion to deny chapter 7 relieve where the filing is found to be a substantial abuse .  but unlike this bill , current law provides a presumption in favor of granting relief to the debtor .  the other option is chapter 13 where a debtor is required to continue paying creditors .  this makes it more difficult for debtors to get back on their feet .  this bill will hurt families facing medical bankruptcy because it will force many of them into chapter 13 .  that is because it presumes that these families are abusing the bankruptcy system if they fail the means test .  the means tests starts with a family 's income and then subtracts monthly expenses permitted by irs guidelines .  but instead of using a debtor 's actual projected income , the means tests uses the debtor 's average income over the prior 6 months .  thus , if a family 's bankruptcy was triggered by a loss of income resulting from a serious illness , the means test would still attribute the lost income for the purpose of determining whether the family is abusing the bankruptcy system .  further , the means test uses the median income for a state .  my constituents in santa clara county live in a high-cost area .  almost nobody will be able to discharge their debts in bankruptcy from santa clara county because of that high cost , no matter how meritorious for their claim for relief .  similarly , instead of using the debtor 's actual expenses , the inflexible guidelines developed by the irs is used .  as a result , more families facing medical bankruptcy will be presumed to be abusing the system , will be forced into chapter 13 and will never be able to stand on their feet again .  that is not right .  the harvard study found that these struggling families did everything they could to pay their medical bills to avoid bankruptcy .  one in five skipped meals .  one-third had their electricity cut off .  almost half lost their phone service .  one in five was forced to move .  incredibly , they also cut back on needed medications to try to avoid bankruptcy .  in fact , half went without needed prescriptions .  and a full 60 percent went without a needed doctor appointment .  please join me in opposing this unfair bill .  illness and injury as contributors to bankruptcy abstract : in 2001 , 1.458 million american families filed for bankruptcy .  to investigate medical contributors to bankruptcy , we surveyed 1 , 771 personal bankruptcy filers in five federal courts and subsequently completed in-depth interviews with 931 of them .  about half cited medical causes , which indicates that 1.9-2.2 million americans ( filers plus dependents ) experienced medical bankruptcy .  among those whose illnesses led to bankruptcy , out-of-pocket costs averaged $ 11 , 854 since the start of illness ; 75.7 percent had insurance at the onset of illness .  medical debtors were 42 percent more likely than other debtors to experience lapses in coverage .  even middle-class insured families often fall prey to financial catastrophe when sick .  `` if the debtor be insolvent to serve creditors , let his body be cut in pieces on the third market day .  it may be cut into more or fewer pieces with impunity .  or , if his creditors consent to it , let him be sold to foreigners beyond the tiber. '' -- twelve tables , table iii , 6 ( ca .  450 b.c. ) our bankruptcy system works differently from that of ancient rome ; creditors carve up the debtor 's assets , not the debtor .  even so , bankruptcy leaves painful problems in its wake .  it remains on credit reports for a decade , making everything from car insurance to house payments more expensive .  debtors ' names are often published in the newspaper , and the fact of their bankruptcy may show up whenever someone tries to find them via the internet .  potential employers who run routine credit checks ( a common screening practice ) will discover the bankruptcy , which can lead to embarrassment or , worse , the lost chance for a much-needed job .  personal bankruptcy is common .  nearly 1.5 million couples or individuals filed bankruptcy petitions in 2001 , a 360 percent increase since 1980 .  fragmentary data from the legal literature suggest that illness and medical bills contribute to bankruptcy .  most previous studies of medical bankruptcy , however , have relied on court records -- where medical debts may be subsumed under credit card or mortgage debt -- or on responses to a single survey question .  none has collected detailed information on medical expenses , diagnoses , access to care , work loss , or insurance coverage .  research has been impeded both by the absence of a national repository for bankruptcy filings and by debtors ' reticence to discuss their bankruptcy , in population-based surveys , only half of those who have undergone bankruptcy admit to it .  the health policy literature is virtually silent on bankruptcy , although a few studies have looked at impoverishment attributable to illness .  in his 1972 book , sen .  edward kennedy ( d-ma ) gave an impressionistic account of `` sickness and bankruptcy. '' the likelihood of incurring high out-of-pocket costs was incorporated into older estimates of the number of underinsured americans : twenty-nine million in 1987 .  about 16 percent of families now spend more than one-twentieth of their income on health care .  among terminally ill patients ( most of them insured ) , 39 percent reported that health care costs caused moderate or severe financial problems .  medical debt is common among the poor , even those with insurance , and interferes with access to care .  at least 8 percent , and perhaps as many as 21 percent of american families are contacted by collection agencies about medical bills annually .  our study provides the first extensive data on the medical concomitants of bankruptcy , based on a survey of debtors in bankruptcy courts .  we address the following questions : ( 1 ) who files for bankruptcy ?  ( 2 ) how frequently do illness and medical bills contribute to bankruptcy ?  ( 3 ) when medical bills contribute , how large are they and for what services ?  ( 4 ) does inadequate health insurance play a role in bankruptcy ?  ( 5 ) does bankruptcy compromise access to care ?  `` bankrupt '' is not synonymous with `` broke. '' `` bankrupt '' means filing a petition in a federal court asking for protection from creditors via the bankruptcy laws .  a single petition may cover an individual or married couple .  the instant a debtor files for bankruptcy , the court assumes legal control of the debtor 's assets and halts all collection efforts .  shortly after the filing , a court-appointed trustee convenes a meeting to inventory the debtor 's assets and debts and to determine which assets are exempt from seizure .  states may regulate these exemptions , which often include work tools , clothes , bibles , and some equity in a home .  about 70 percent of all consumer debtors file under chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code ; most others file under chapter 13 .  in chapter 7 the trustee liquidates all nonexempt assets -- although 96 percent of debtors have so little unencumbered property that there is nothing left to liquidate .  at the conclusion of the bankruptcy , the debtor is freed from many debts .  in chapter 13 the debtor proposes a repayment plan , which extends for up to five years .  chapter 13 debtors may retain their property so long as they stay current with their repayments .  under both chapters , taxes , student loans , alimony , and child support remain payable in full , and debtors must make payments on all secured loans ( such as home mortgages and car loans ) or forfeit the collateral .  this study is based on a cohort of 1 , 771 bankruptcy filings in 2001 .  for each filing , a debtor completed a written questionnaire at the mandatory meeting with the trustee , and we abstracted financial data from public court records .  in addition , we conducted follow-up telephone interviews with about half ( 931 ) of these debtors .  sampling strategy .  we used cluster sampling to assemble a cohort to households filing for personal bankruptcy in five ( of the seventy-seven total ) federal judicial districts .  we collected 250 questionnaires in each district , representative of the proportion of chapters 7 and 13 filings in that district .  these 1 , 250 cases constitute our `` core sample. '' for planned studies on housing , we collected identical data from an additional 521 homeowners filing for bankruptcy .  we based our analyses on all 1 , 771 bankruptcies with responses weighted to maintain the representativeness of the sample .  data collection .  with the cooperation of the judges in each district , we contacted the trustees who officiate at meetings with debtors .  the trustees agreed to distribute , or to allow a research assistant to distribute , a self-administered questionnaire to debtors appearing at the bankruptcy meeting .  questionnaires ( which were available in english and spanish ) included a cover letter explaining the research project and human subjects protections and encouraging debtors to consult their attorneys the questionnaire asked about demographics , employment , housing , and specific reasons for filing for bankruptcy , it also asked whether the debtor had medical debts exceeding $ 1 , 000 , had lost two or more weeks of work-related income because of illness , or had health insurance coverage for themselves and all dependents at the time of filing , and whether there had been a gap of one month or more in that coverage during the past two years .  in joint filings , we collected demographic information for each spouse .  during the spring and summer of 2001 we collected questionnaires from consecutive debtors in each district until the target number was reached .  follow-up telephone interviews .  the written questionnaire distributed at the time of bankruptcy filing invited debtors to participate in future telephone interviews , for which they would receive $ 50 ; 70 percent agreed to such interviews .  we ultimately completed follow-up telephone interviews with 931 of the 1 , 771 debtor families , a response rate of 53 percent .  the telephone interviews , conducted between june 2001 and february 2002 using a structured , computer-assisted protocol , explored financial , housing , and medical issues .  detailed medical questions .  each of the 931 interviewees was asked if any of the following had been a significant cause of their bankruptcy : an illness or injury ; the death of a family member ; or the addition of a family member through birth , adoption , custody , or fostering .  those who answered yes to this screening question were queried about diagnoses , health insurance during the illness , and medical care use and spending .  interviewers collected information about each household member with medical problems .  in total , we collected in-depth medical information on 391 people with health problems in 332 debtor households .  data analysis .  we used data from the self-administered questionnaires ( and court records ) obtained from all 1 , 771 filters to analyze demographics , health coverage at the time of filing , and gaps in coverage in the two years before filing .  we also used the questionnaire to estimate how frequently illness and medical bills contributed to bankruptcy .  we developed two summary measures of medical bankruptcy .  under the rubric `` major medical bankruptcy '' we included debtors who either ( 1 ) cited illness or injury as a specific reason for bankruptcy , or ( 2 ) reported uncovered medical bills exceeding $ 1 , 000 in the past years , or ( 3 ) lost at least two weeks of work-related income because of illness/injury , or ( 4 ) mortgaged a home to pay medical bills .  our more inclusive category , `` any medical bankruptcy , '' included debtors who cited any of the above , or addiction , or uncontrolled gambling , or birth , or the death of a family member .  data from the 931 follow-up telephone interviews were used to analyze hardships experienced by debtors in the period surrounding their bankruptcy , including problems gaining access to medical care .  the in-depth medical interviews regarding 391 people with medical problems are the basis for our analyses of which household members were ill , diagnoses , health insurance at onset of illness , and out-of-pocket spending .  two physicians ( himmelstein and woolhandler ) coded the diagnoses given by debtors into categories for analysis .  sas and sudaan were used for statistical analyses , adjusting for complex sample design .  to extrapolate our findings nationally , we assumed that our sample was representative of the 1 , 457 , 572 households filing for bankruptcy during 2001 .  human subject committees at harvard law school and the cambridge hospital approved the project .  who files for bankruptcy ?  exhibit 1 displays the demographic characteristics of our weighted sample of 1 , 771 bankruptcy filers .  the average debtor was a forty-one-year-old woman with children and at least some college education .  most debtors owned homes ; their occupational prestige scores place them predominantly in the middle or working classes .  on average , each bankruptcy involved 1.32 debtors ( reflecting some joint filings by married couples ) and 1.33 dependents .  extrapolating from our data , the 1.5 million personal bankruptcy filings nationally in 2001 involved 3.9 million people : 1.9 million debtors , 1.3 million children under age eighteen , and 0.7 million other dependents .  medical causes of bankruptcy .  exhibit 2 shows the proportion of debtors ( n = 1 , 771 ) citing various medical contributors to their bankruptcy and the estimated number of debtors and dependents nationally affected by each cause .  more than one-quarter cited illness or injury as a specific reason for bankruptcy ; a similar number reported uncovered medical bills exceeding $ 1 , 000 .  some debtors cited more than one medical contributor .  nearly half ( 46.2 percent ) ( 95 percent confidence interval = 43.5 , 48.9 ) of debtors met at least one of our criteria for `` major medical bankruptcy. '' slightly more than half ( 54.5 percent ) ( 95 percent ci = 51.8 , 57.2 ) met criteria for `` any medical bankruptcy. '' a lapse in health insurance coverage during the two years before filing was a strong predictor of a medical cause of bankruptcy ( exhibit 3 ) .  nearly four-tenths ( 38.4 percent ) of debtors who had a `` major medical bankruptcy '' had experienced a lapse , compared with 27.1 percent of debtors with no medical cause ( p & amp ; lt ; .0001 ) .  surprisingly , medical debtors were no less likely than other debtors to have coverage at the time of filing .  ( more detailed coverage and cost data for the subsample we interviewed appears below. ) medical debtors resembled other debtors in most other respects ( exhibit 1 ) .  however , the `` major medical bankruptcy '' group was 16 percent ( p & amp ; lt ; 03 ) less likely than other debtors to cite trouble managing money as a cause of their bankruptcy ( data not shown ) .  privations in the period surrounding bankruptcy .  in our follow-up telephone interviews with 931 debtors , they reported substantial problems .  during the two years before filing , 40.3 percent had lost telephone service ; 19.4 percent had gone without food ; 53.6 percent had gone without needed doctor or dentist visits because of the cost , and 43.0 percent had failed to fill a prescription , also because of the cost .  medical debtors experienced more problems in access to care than other debtors did ; three-fifths went without a needed doctor or dentist visit , and nearly half failed to fill a prescription .  medical debt was also associated with mortgage problems .  among the total sample of 1 , 771 debtors , those with more than $ 1 , 000 in medical bills were more likely than others to have taken out a mortgage to pay medical bills ( 5.0 percent versus 0.8 percent ) .  fifteen percent of all homeowners who had taken out a second or third mortgage cited medical expenses as a reason .  follow-up phone interviews revealed that among homeowners with high-risk mortgages ( interest rates greater than 12 percent , or points plus fees of at least 8 percent ) , 13.8 percent cited a medical reason for taking out the loan .  following their bankruptcy filings , about one-third of debtors continued to have problems paying their bills .  medical debtors reported particular problems making mortgage/rent payments and paying for utilities .  although our interviews occurred soon after the bankruptcy filings ( seven months , on average ) , many debtors had already been turned down for jobs ( 3.1 percent ) , mortgages ( 5.8 percent ) , apartment rentals ( 4.9 percent ) , or car loans ( 9.3 percent ) because of the bankruptcy on their credit reports .  medical diagnoses , spending , and type of coverage .  our interviews yielded detailed data on diagnoses , health insurance coverage , and medical bills for 391 debtors or family members whose medical problems contributed to bankruptcy .  in three-quarters of cases , the person experiencing the illness/injury was the debt or spouse of the debtor ; in 13.3 percent , a child ; and in 8.2 percent , an elderly relative .  illness begot financial problems both directly ( because of medical costs ) and through lost income .  three-fifths ( 59.9 percent ) of families bankrupted by medical problems indicated that medical bills ( from medical care providers ) contributed to bankruptcy ; 47.6 percent cited drug costs ; 35.3 percent had curtailed employment because of illness , often ( 52.8 percent ) to care for someone else .  many families had problems with both medical bills and income loss .  families bankrupted by medical problems cited varied , and sometimes multiple , diagnoses .  cardiovascular disorders were reported by 26.6 percent ; trauma/orthopedic/back problems by nearly one-third ; and cancer , diabetes , pulmonary , or mental disorders and childbirth-related and congenital disorders by about 10 percent each .  half ( 51.7 percent ) of the medical problems involved ongoing chronic illnesses .  our in-depth interviews with medical debtors confirmed that gaps in coverage were a common problem .  three-fourths ( 75.7 percent ) of these debtors were insured at the on-set of the bankrupting illness .  three-fifths ( 60.1 percent ) initially had private coverage , but one-third of them lost coverage during the course of their illness .  of debtors , 5.7 percent had medicare , 8.4 percent medicaid , and 1.6 percent veterans/military coverage .  those covered under government programs were less likely than others to have experienced coverage interruptions .  few medical debtors had elected to go without coverage .  only 2.9 percent of those who were uninsured or suffered a gap in coverage said that they had not thought they needed insurance ; 55.9 percent said that premiums were unaffordable , 7.1 percent were unable to obtain coverage because of preexisting medical conditions , and most others cited employment issues , such as job loss or ineligibility for employer-sponsored coverage .  debtors ' out-of-pocket medical costs were often below levels that are commonly labeled catastrophic .  in the year prior to bankruptcy , out-of-pocket costs ( excluding insurance premiums ) averaged $ 3 , 686 ( 95 percent ci = $ 2 , 693 , $ 4 , 679 ) ( exhibit 5 ) .  presumably , such costs were often ruinous because of concomitant income loss or because the need for costly care persisted over several years .  out-of-pocket costs since the onset of illness/injury averaged $ 11 , 854 ( 95 percent ci = $ 8 , 532 , $ 15 , 175 ) .  those with continuous insurance coverage paid $ 734 annually in premiums on average over and above the expenditures detailed above .  debtors with private insurance at the onset of their illnesses had even higher out-of-pocket costs than those with no insurance .  this paradox is explained by the very high costs -- $ 18 , 005 -- incurred by patients who initially had private the human face of bankruptcy .  debtors ' narratives painted a picture of families arriving at the bankruptcy courthouse emotionally and financially exhausted , hoping to stop the collection calls , save their homes , and stabilize their economic circumstances .  many of the debtors detailed ongoing problems with access to care .  some expressed fear that their medical care providers would refuse to continue their care , and a few recounted actual experiences of this kind .  several had used credit cards to charge medical bills they had no hope of paying .  the co-occurrence of medical and job problems was a common theme .  for instance , one debtor underwent lung surgery and suffered a heart attack .  both hospitalizations were covered by his employer-based insurance , but he was unable to return to his physically demanding job .  he found new employment but was denied coverage because of his preexisting conditions , which required costly ongoing care .  similarly , a teacher who suffered a heart attack was unable to return to work for many months , and hence her coverage lapsed .  a hospital wrote off her $ 20 , 000 debt , but she was nevertheless bankrupted by doctor 's bills and the cost of medications .  a second common theme was sounded by parents of premature infants or chronically ill children ; many took time off from work or incurred large bills for home care while they were at their jobs .  finally , many of the insured debtors blamed high copayments and deductibles for their financial ruin .  for example , a man insured through his employer ( a large national firm ) suffered a broken leg and torn knee ligaments , he incurred $ 13 , 000 in out-of-pocket costs for copayments , deductibles , and uncovered services -- much of it for physical therapy .  bankruptcy is common in the united states , involving nearly four million debtors and dependents in 2001 ; medical problems contribute to about half of all bankruptcies .  medical debtors , like other bankruptcy filer , were primarily middle class ( by education and occupation ) .  the chronically poor are less likely to build up debt , have fewer assets ( such as a home ) to protect , and have less access to the legal resources needed to navigate a complex financial rehabilitation .  the medical debtors we surveyed were demographically typical americans who got sick .  they differed from others filing for bankruptcy in one important respect : they were more likely to have experienced a lapse in health coverage .  many had coverage at the onset of their illness but lost it .  in other cases , even continuous coverage left families with ruinous medical bills .  study strengths and limitations .  our study 's strengths are the use of multiple overlapping data sources ; a large sample size ; geographic diversity ; and in-depth data collection .  although our sample may not be fully representative of all personal bankruptcies , the chapter 7 filers we studied resemble chapter 7 filers nationally ( the only group for whom demographic data has been complied nationally from court records ) .  several indicators suggest that response bias did not greatly distort our findings .  as in all surveys , we relied on respondents ' truthfulness .  might some debtors blame their predicament on socially acceptable medical problems rather than admitting to irresponsible spending ?  several factors suggest that our respondents were candid .  first , just prior to answering our questionnaire , debtors had filed extensive information with the court under penalty of perjury -- information that was available to use in the court records and that virtually never contradicted the questionnaire data .  they were about to be sworn in by a trustee ( who often administered our questionnaire ) and examined under oath .  at few other points in life are full disclosure and honesty so aggressively emphasized .  second , the details called for in our telephone interview -- questions about out-of-pocket medical expenses , who was ill , diagnoses , and so forth -- would make a generic claim that `` we had medical problems '' difficult to sustain .  third , one of us ( thorne ) interviewed ( for other studies ) many debtors in their homes .  almost all specifically denied spend-thrift habits , and observation of their homes supported these claims .  most reflected the lifestyle of people under economic constraint , with modest furnishings and few luxuries .  finally , our findings receive indirect corroboration from recent surveys of the general public that have found high levels of medical debt , which often result in calls from collection agencies .  even when data are reliable , making casual inferences from a cross-sectional study such as ours is perilous .  many debtors described a complex web of problems involving illness , work , and family .  dissecting medical from other causes of bankruptcy is difficult .  we can not presume that eliminating the medical antecedents of bankruptcy would have preventing all of the filings we classified as `` medical bankruptcies. '' conversely , many people financially ruined by illness are undoubtedly too ill , too destitute , or too demoralized to pursue formal bankruptcy .  in sum , bankruptcy is an imperfect proxy for financial ruin .  trends in medical bankruptcy .  although methodological inconsistencies between studies preclude precise quantification of time trends , medical bankruptcies are clearly increasing .  in 1981 the best evidence available suggests that about 25 , 000 families filed for bankruptcy in the aftermath of a serious medical problem ( 8 percent of the 312 , 000 bankruptcy filings that year ) .  our findings suggest that the number of medical bankruptcies had increased twenty-threefold by 2001 .  since the number of bankruptcy filings rose 11 percent in the eighteen months after the completion of our data collection , the absolute number of medical bankruptcies almost surely continues to increase .  policy implications .  our data highlight four deficiencies in the financial safety net for american families confronting illness .  first , even brief lapses in insurance coverage may be ruinous and should not be viewed as benign .  while forty-five million americans are uninsured at any point in time , many more experience spells without coverage .  we found little evidence that such gaps were voluntary .  only a handful of medical debtors with a gap in coverage had chosen to forgo insurance because they had not perceived a need for it ; the overwhelming majority had found coverage unaffordable or effectively unavailable .  the privations suffered by many debtors -- going without food , telephone service , electricity , and health care -- lend credence to claims that coverage was unaffordable and belie the second , many health insurance policies prove to be too skimpy in the face of serious illness .  we doubt that such underinsurance reflects families ' preference for risk ; few americans have more than one or two health insurance options .  many insured families are bankrupted by medical expenses well below the `` catastrophic '' thresholds of high-deductible plans that are increasingly popular with employers .  indeed , even the most comprehensive plan available to us through harvard university leaves faculty at risk for out-of-pocket expenses as large as those reported by our medical debtors .  third , even good employment-based coverage sometimes fails to protect families , because illness may lead to job loss and the consequent loss of coverage .  lost jobs , of course , also leave families without health coverage when they are at their financially most vulnerable .  finally , illness often leads to financial catastrophe through loss of income , as well as high medical bills .  hence , disability insurance and paid sick leave are also critical to financial survival of a serious illness .  only broad reforms can address these problems .  even universal coverage could leave many americans vulnerable to bankruptcy unless such coverage was much more comprehensive than many current policies .  as in canada and most of western europe , health insurance should be divorced from employment to avoid coverage disruptions at the time of illness .  insurance policies should incorporate comprehensive stop-loss provisions , closing coverage loopholes that expose insured families to unaffordable out-of-pocket costs .  additionally , improved programs are needed to replace breadwinners ' incomes when they are disabled or must care for a loved one .  the low rate of medical bankruptcy in canada suggests that better medical and social insurance could greatly ameliorate this problem in the united states .  in 1591 pope gregory xiv fell gravely ill .  his doctors prescribed pulverized gold and gems .  according to legend , the resulting depletion of the papal treasury is reflected in his unadorned plaster sarcophagus in st .  peter 's basilica .  four centuries later , solidly middle-class americans still face impoverishment following a serious illness .  mr. speaker , my colleague from florida , i wish he would stay , because we are here today because the republican majority would like to repeal the estate tax , but they have forgotten history .  i am sure my colleague was not here , but i would like to remind him that it was a republican , president roosevelt , teddy roosevelt , who strongly supported an estate tax in the first place .  here is what he said .  there is no argument for this .  `` the man of great wealth , '' teddy said , `` owes a particular obligation to the state because he derives special advantages from the mere existence of government. '' wow , nicely said , and a republican , too .  that proves two things , that republicans can sometimes speak eloquently , and sometimes they can even do something that is right .  though republicans want to undo all the good for the sake of greed , please , america , do not be phonied up by this rhetoric that we hear on this bill .  they will pitch some gibberish about how they are helping americans .  that is nonsense .  we just came from the committee on ways and means .  the reason this place was in recess is because we were over there giving out $ 8 billion to oil companies .  those poor people , whose profits have quadrupled in the last 2 years , that is what we did a little while ago .  now we come over here , and we are going to give more money away .  does that seem like it benefits real people ?  this is not about real people .  this is about very , very , very rich people , and that is about as plainspoken as teddy roosevelt would have said it .  only 2 percent , at the most , pay any estate tax whatsoever .  three-quarters of the money that comes in comes from people with estates over $ 2.5 million .  if we repeal this , the rich get richer and america 's deficit gets deeper and redder .  we create an oligarchic class in this country from whom the money can never be taxed .  if they can manipulate it around while they are alive , they can never have to pay a penny .  the real losers in this are not only the american people .  it is the american universities , the american churches , all those people who get money contributed by rich people because they do not want to pay the inheritance tax .  now my colleagues have taken away the encouragement .  why should they give anything away ?  oh , well , because they have big hearts .  they have big hearts we are told .  really ?  then why are we out here with a bill like this which gives them the ability to keep every single dime ?  now if you can give your kid $ 2 million and say , now , johnny , here is two million bucks , i think that ought to kind of get you a start in the world .  does that not seem like enough ?  well , to the republicans , there is never enough ; take as much as you can from everybody and keep it .  ronald reagan put the sign of the cross on it .  he said , are you better off today than you were 4 years ago ?  never does anyone say on my colleagues ' side , are we better off .  we are in debt to the world .  we borrowed from the japanese last year our entire deficit , more than $ 400 billion , and the president wanders around the country saying , well , that is just paper .  those things in the social security trust fund , that is just paper .  do not pay any attention to that .  if the japanese stop buying dollars and they start buying euros , and the chinese start buying euros and the middle east buys euros , where do my colleagues think we are going to borrow money and what kind of interest rate are we going to pay ?  this is a bad bill , it is bad policy , and it is bad ethics .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  we hear the phrase `` death tax , '' which really is kind of a misnomer .  there is no such thing .  when i am dead , i am dead .  you can not collect any taxes from me .  the issue is whether or not estates in the billions of dollars should be subject to any taxation .  we are not talking about small family farms or small businesses .  that is not what this is about .  if you read the washington post today , it is very clear what this is about .  it is about the most extremely wealthy companies , the most extremely wealthy people in this country .  the gentleman from north dakota has a substitute that would basically exempt 99.7 percent of all estates from any estate tax .  so let us be clear about what is going on , and let us also be clear about the cost to our kids .  the joint committee on taxation says that this is going to cost up to $ 290 billion .  there seems to be no concern on the other side of the aisle about what this does to our deficit or our debt .  this is not paid for .  they make no attempt to pay for it .  let me just remind my colleagues that the debt that we are faced with right now is close to $ 8 trillion , and the interest on that debt is astonishingly high .  that is the legacy that they are passing on to our kids .  our good colleague from tennessee ( mr. tanner )  in a presentation , i thought , said it best .  he said , so people can understand what the debt means , if you stack up one thousand dollar bills , a million dollars would be about a foot high ; a billion dollars would be about the size of the empire state building ; a trillion dollars would be 1 , 000 empire state buildings .  our debt is close to $ 8 trillion , and there is no outrage on the other side , there is no concern about what we are doing and what it means to our economy by making these tax cuts permanent .  i think that people need to understand what is going on here .  this is not about small family farms .  it is not about small businesses .  this is about helping the wealthiest of the wealthy .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me again remind people that we are talking about three-tenths of 1 percent who actually pay an estate tax .  in that category we are not talking about family farms or small businesses .  we are talking about paris hilton , and i would say to my colleague from california that i think she has enough accountants and lawyers to be able to fill out form 706 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just make a couple of points here .  this is not about protecting small businesses or family farms .  i mean , i think that is clear to everybody here .  this is about protecting the three-tenths of the 1 percent wealthiest people in this country .  i enter into the record an article that appeared in today 's washington post that really kind of explains what this debate is all about , about how mars candy , gallo wine , and campbell soup fortunes have been lobbying for the complete repeal of the estate tax for some time so they can end all taxation on their inheritance .  that is what this is about .  this is not about working families .  this is not small family farms or small businesses .  this is about protecting the richest of the rich .  erosion of estate tax is a session in politics in 1992 , when heirs to the mars inc .  fortune joined a few other wealthy families to hire the law firm patton boggs llp to lobby for estate tax repeal , the joke on k street was that few washington sightseers had paid so much for a fruitless tour of the capitol .  today , the house is expected to vote to permanently repeal the estate tax , moving the mars candy , gallo wine and campbell soup fortunes one step closer to a goal that once seemed quixotic at best : ending all taxation on inheritances .  `` i think this train has an awful lot of momentum , '' said yale university law professor michael j. graetz , a former senior official in the treasury department of president george h.w .  bush .  last month , graetz and yale political scientist ian shapiro published `` death by a thousand cuts , '' chronicling the estate tax repeal movement as `` a mystery about politics and persuasion. '' `` for almost a century , the estate tax affected only the richest 1 or 2 percent of citizens , encouraged charity , and placed no burden on the vast majority of americans , '' they wrote .  `` a law that constituted the blandest kind of common sense for most of the twentieth century was transformed , in the space of little more than a decade , into the supposed enemy of hardworking citizens all over this country. '' the secret of the repeal movement 's success has been its appeal to principle over economics .  while repeal opponents bellowed that only the richest of the rich would ever pay the estate tax , proponents appealed to americans ' sense of fairness , that individuals have the natural right to pass on their wealth to their children .  the most recent internal revenue service data back opponents ' claims .  in 2001 , out of 2 , 363 , 100 total adult deaths , only 49 , 911 -- 2.1 percent -- had estates large enough to be hit by the estate tax .  that was down from 2.3 percent in 1999 .  the value of the taxed estates in 2001 averaged nearly $ 2.7 million .  congressional action since 2001 will likely bring down the number of taxable estates still further .  president bush 's 10-year , $ 1.35 trillion tax cut in 2001 began a decade-long phase-out of the estate tax .  the portion of an estate exempted from taxation was raised from $ 675 , 000 in 2001 to $ 1.5 million in 2004 .  next year , the exemption will rise to $ 2 million for individuals and $ 4 million for couples .  the impact has been clear , tax policy analysts say .  the number of estates filing tax return is falling sharply , from 123 , 600 in 2000 to an expected 63 , 800 this year .  and only a small fraction of those will actually be taxed .  under the 2001 legislation , however , all of the tax cuts , including the estate tax 's repeal , would be rescinded in 2011 .  the vote today is the first to address the sunset provisions .  house democrats , led by rep .  earl pomeroy ( d-n.d. ) , today will propose permanently raising the exclusion to $ 3.5 million -- $ 7 million for couples .  that would be enough to exempt 99.7 percent of all estates .  the pomeroy bill would cost the treasury $ 72 billion over 10 years , compared with the $ 290 billion price tag of a full repeal through 2015 , according to the joint committee on taxation .  `` the ideological fervor that is admittedly still pretty strong in some quarters is now being tempered by the runaway debt that is weighing down this country , '' said pomeroy , who thinks voters are ready for a compromise .  indeed , senate majority leader bill frist ( r-tenn. ) has asked sen .  jon kyl ( r-ariz. ) , a repeal proponent , to find a compromise that could win a filibuster-proof 60 votes in the senate this year , even if it falls short of full repeal .  a compromise that includes any estate tax , no matter how small , may fail if the fervent repeal coalition holds firm , graetz said .  repeal opponents have been unable to whip up big support , he said , because they never made the emotional case that the american belief in equal opportunity runs counter to the existence of an aristocracy born to inherited riches .  paris hilton , who inherited her wealth .  and now famously enjoys spending it , could have been their counter to the small-business owners and family farmers whom repeal proponents held up as the victims of the tax .  `` the public does n't believe people should be taxed at the time of death , whether they are paupers or billionaires , '' said frank luntz , a republican pollster who has been working on estate tax repeal for a decade .  `` compromise is very difficult because the public does n't want it to exist. '' it is that sentiment that the fledgling repeal forces tapped into when they mobilized more than a decade ago .  a little-known southern california estate planner named patricia soldano launched her repeal effort with the backing of about 50 wealthy clients , with the gallo and mars families leading the way .  other contributors included the heirs of the campbell soup and krystal hamburger fortunes .  frank blethen , whose family controls the seattle times co. , was also pivotal .  the effort caught fire when small-business groups such as the national federation of independent business and agriculture groups led by the national cattlemen 's beef association joined in .  by 1994 , newt gingrich 's republican insurgents had latched onto the estate tax issue , but the contract with america called for an estate tax reduction , not repeal .  in 1995 , luntz poll-tested the term `` death tax '' and advised the new gop majority to never use the terms `` inheritance '' or `` estate tax '' again .  by then , soldano 's policy and taxation group was spending more than $ 250 , 000 a year on lobbying .  a parade of small-business owners and family farmers appealed to their congressmen , worried that they could not pass on their enterprises to their children , even though most of them would not be affected by the tax .  `` there 's been a sustained , determined campaign of misinformation that in the end has left the american people with a very different notion of what the estate tax is and does than actually exists , '' pomeroy said .  but ultimately , whether people believe the estate tax will affect them has little bearing on support for repeal .  early this year , with soldano 's money , luntz again began polling , this time in the face of record budget deficits and lingering economic unease .  more than 80 percent called the taxation of inheritances `` extreme. '' about 64 percent said they favored `` death tax '' repeal .  support fell to a still-strong 56 percent when asked whether they favored repeal , even if it temporarily boosted the budget deficit .  democrats `` still do n't get it , '' graetz said .  `` the politics are still very powerful. '' mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i appreciate the words from my colleague on the committee on rules , the gentleman from florida ; but quite frankly , i do not know what he is talking about .  the small businesses and the family farms , we are all in agreement that they need to be protected .  that is not what the debate is about here today .  the debate is about whether three-tenths of 1 percent of higher income-earners in this country deserve additional tax relief at a time when they are cutting medicaid , veterans benefits , when they are dipping into the social security trust fund .  this is not a death tax .  what they are talking about is a debt tax , d-e-b-t , adding to the deficits and the debt of this country .  right now , this year , we are paying $ 177 billion this year in interest on the debt .  next year it will be $ 213 billion .  it is ridiculous .  we need to rein in some of these extravagant tax cuts for the wealthy so that we can get our fiscal house in order here in this country , so we can start taking care of social security in the long term , so we do not have to cut veterans benefits or educational benefits or environmental protection .  mr. speaker , i at this time i will enter into the record an article by e.j. dionne entitled `` the paris hilton tax cut. '' the paris hilton tax cut the same people who insist that critics of social security privatization should offer reform proposals of their own are working feverishly to eliminate alternatives that might reduce the need for benefit cuts or payroll tax increases .  i refer to the fact that house republican leaders have scheduled a vote this week to abolish the estate tax permanently .  under a wacky provision of the 2001 tax cut designed to disguise the law 's full cost , congress voted to make the estate tax go away in 2010 , but come back in full force in 2011 .  with so many other taxes around , it 's hard to understand why this is the one congress would repeal .  it falls , in effect , on the heirs to the wealthiest americans .  fewer than 1 percent of the people who died in 2004 paid an estate tax , and half the revenue from the tax came from estates valued at $ 10 million or more .  yet , because the wealthy have gotten wealthier over the past three decades or so , the estate tax produces a lot of money .  counting both revenue losses and added interest costs , complete repeal of the estate tax would cost the government close to $ 1 trillion between 2012 and 2021 , according to the center on budget and policy priorities .  and that is where social security comes in .  you can reject outlandish claims that social security faces some sort of `` crisis '' and still acknowledge that it faces a gap in funding for the long haul .  the estate tax should be part of the solution .  in a little-noticed estimate confirmed by his office yesterday , stephen goss , the highly respected social security actuary , has studied how much of the social security financing gap could be filled by a reformed estate tax .  what would happen if , instead of repealing the tax , congress left it in place at a 45 percent rate , and only on fortunes that exceeded $ 3.5 million -- which would be $ 7 million for couples ?  that , by the way , is well below where the estate tax stood when president bush took office and would eliminate more than 99 percent of estates from the tax .  it reflects the substantial reduction that would take effect in 2009 under bush 's tax plan .  according to goss , a tax at that level would cover one-quarter of the 75-year social security shortfall .  the congressional budget office has a more modest estimate of the shortfall .  applying goss 's numbers means that if cbo is right , the reformed estate tax would cover one-half of the social security shortfall .  this is big news for the social security debate .  michael j. graetz and ian shapiro , authors of a new book on the estate tax , `` death by a thousand cuts , '' have referred to its repeal as the `` paris hilton benefit act. '' to pick up on the metaphor , why should congress be more concerned about protecting paris hilton 's inheritance than grandma 's social security check ?  how can a member of congress even think about raising payroll taxes while throwing away so much other revenue ?  this also means that democrats now talking about reaching a `` compromise '' with the republicans on the estate tax should put the discussions on hold until the social security debate plays itself out .  most of the `` compromises '' being discussed would repeal 80 to 90 percent of the estate tax .  at some point , it might be reasonable to agree to make the 2009 estate tax levels permanent .  but if they agree to any steps beyond that , democrats will , once again , be placing the concerns of wealthy donors over the interests of the people who actually vote for them .  the friends of paris hilton realize that as federal deficits mount and rising medicare costs loom , the case for the total repeal of the estate tax grows steadily weaker .  that 's why they 're hoping they can sucker defenders of estate taxes into a so-called compromise that gives away the store -- the store , in this case , going to neiman-marcus shoppers , not to those who rely on target .  this is an instructive moment .  what we are having is not a real debate on the future of social security but a sham discussion in which the one issue that matters to the governing majority is how to keep cutting taxes on the wealthiest people in our country .  those who vote to repeal the estate tax this week will be sending a clear message : they see the `` crisis '' in social security as serious enough to justify benefit cuts and private accounts .  but it 's not serious enough to warrant a minor inconvenience to those who plan to live on their parents ' wealth .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  again , i am having trouble following this debate here .  the gentlewoman from tennessee talked about the thousands of people in her district that had to pay the estate tax last year .  i am reading from a report here that said there were roughly 440 taxable estates , or about 2 percent of all taxable estates were made up of farm and business assets in the year 2004 .  what we are talking about here , and again , if we agree to the pomeroy substitute , is three-tenths of 1 percent of the wealthiest people in this country .  that is what we are talking about .  we are not talking about family farms .  i mean , that is a red herring .  we are not talking about small businesses .  we are talking about the campbell soup fortunes , the mars candy fortunes .  we are talking about the richest of the rich .  that is what this is about .  what is unconscionable is that we are moving forward on this at a time when the majority of this house is proposing budgets that slash medicaid , that cut community development block grants , that cut veterans health benefits , that cut education , that cut things that people rely on every single day .  this is absurd that we are having this debate here today .  again , i would urge my colleagues to look at the facts .  please do not exaggerate the impact of the difference between what the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  has suggested and what you are proposing here .  what you are doing here is trying to extend this to protect the richest of the rich , and that is just wrong .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i want to make it clear , as there is a lot of misinformation being promoted on the other side here : our side supports relief for family farmers and small businesses .  that is not what we are talking about here today .  the difference between our approach is the three-tenths of 1 percent richest people in this country , the paris hiltons of the world , the executives at campbell soup , the heirs of campbell soup or mars candy if you read the washington post today .  that is what this is about .  in a climate where the majority is cutting medicaid , cutting veterans benefits , cutting programs that help feed the most vulnerable in our country , to go out and protect and to try to extend a special tax cut to those richest people in this country , i think , is unconscionable .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me again , just for the record , point out that the pomeroy substitute would provide $ 3 million in relief for individuals immediately , $ 3.5 million by 2009 , and $ 7 million per couple .  and , again , what we are talking about here is not what the gentleman just spoke of .  what we are talking about here is the richest of the rich in this country .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  again , mr. speaker , i would urge that the people join with us on this vote .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i did not say the bill did not pay for service members ' medical expenses who are injured in iraq or afghanistan .  i said if they incur debt after they come back from serving this country and are forced to bankruptcy , they get the punitive means test .  that is wrong .  we should not do it to people serving in iraq and afghanistan .  mr. speaker , i think this piece of legislation that the majority is clearly going to be able to pass today is one of the most outrageous tax cuts that we have brought to the house floor .  the democrats are going to offer an alternative , and i appreciate the fact that it was allowed by the rules committee , but this alternative would exempt 99.7 percent of american families from having to pay inheritance taxes .  so all we are really talking about is three-tenths of 1 percent , a relative handful , the people who clearly can most afford to pay taxes .  this excessive , unnecessary cut will pass despite the fact that , within the last few legislative sessions , this congress has voted to take 300 , 000 families off food stamps , to take 300 , 000 children off daycare , to run the risk , by taking $ 20 billion out of medicaid , that as many as 7 million very poor elderly people dependent on government help in nursing homes will not get that assistance .  where are our priorities ?  where is our source of fairness ?  you know , i think that we would all agree that we believe in equal opportunity .  but in this country , unfortunately , when you see the effect of these tax cuts , that equal opportunity is really dependent upon the accident of birth .  millions of people in our country are suffering for the accident of birth , without health insurance , without any real prospect of getting decent schooling .  and yet where are we putting our tax cuts ?  what excuse are we using for burdening the next generation with hundreds of billions of dollars of debt ?  we are taking hundreds of billions of dollars , borrowing it from the social security trust funds , just to give more help to the very children who , because of the accident of birth , have the very best education that this country can allow , have all the contacts imaginable , are virtually guaranteed economic success unless they choose to turn their backs on it .  what we have done is to turn our backs on the vast majority of the american people , and to close our consciences to our children 's generation , who are getting swamped with debt .  this bill is going to cost $ 290 billion added on to a public debt that our children will never be able to recover from .  and it is not necessary .  i ask you to consider the fact that it takes away the stepped-up basis at the point of inheritance , insuring that there will be more small businesses , more family farms that are going to get hurt -- over 70 thousand -- by this provision , by this legislation than are going to be helped , because they are going to have to pay capital gains at the point when they actually inherit calculated by going back to the original cost to the deceased .  so it just does not make any sense , other than to people gripped by this ideological fervor to cut taxes irregardless of the rationale or the consequence .  it is terrible legislation .  it ought to be defeated .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. stark )  for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from florida said i want members to give me a good reason why we should not repeal the estate tax .  let me give members two good reasons : afghanistan and iraq .  the idea that we would be borrowing the money to pay for afghanistan and iraq when by just leaving this tax in place we could pay for those incursions and maybe get the humvees to those men and women who are defending us every single day , or maybe get bulletproof vests to them on time , borrowing the money .  the slogan of the moderate republican party is this : we are rich , and we are not going to take it any more .  it is day after day in this institution , borrow money , run up the debt , run up the deficits and then with a straight face say , we are going to repeal a tax that affects 1 percent of the american people , just 1 percent of the american people .  they talk about industriousness and thrift and the work ethic .  we see what happens to this money when it gets to the fourth and fifth generation of the same family : thrift is gone , the work ethic is gone .  they quarrel about who is going to have enough money so they can enjoy the lavish ways of american life .  when i hear people say , as they have said recently in this debate , well it is going to take care of the family farmer , they can not find a farmer that is not taken care of in the legislation that is about to be proposed here .  this legislation that they are proposing today cuts against the grain of what thomas payne reminded us in `` common sense. '' he was concerned about hereditary power , the idea that the same people would control the wealth of america with the same families that would get to go to the same schools so the same families would have the same doctors and lawyers and accountants so the rest of america might not have a chance to participate .  whatever happened to the republican party in america .  teddy roosevelt said this was about thrift and hard work and honesty ; they were blessed to be born in this country .  that is what patriotism is .  when we look at who enjoys the fruits of this money , the smallest number of american people , again the top 1 percent in america .  inherited wealth , that is not what america is based upon .  we do not live in an aristocracy .  look what happened to europe and the way they lag behind as they do .  there is no sense in the house of lords that you can advance yourself .  here in this house , the people 's house , every walk of life is represented .  why do we just not establish a house of lords after we get rid of the estate tax so then when we get rid of hereditary power , we will simply have the permanent state of aristocracy and privilege for the few .  mr. speaker , you would not even exempt our brothers and sisters coming back from war , and you want me to believe that this is reasonable legislation ?  rising debt levels in turn reflect a shift in our economy away from a time when families could afford to save and into a time when their wages are stagnant .  the costs of their health premiums increased 163 percent since 1988 .  their tuitions have increased 170 percent .  their mortgages , their child care .  this is not a stable economy .  they are not crooks .  they are not evil people .  the american bankruptcy institute says that 96.3 percent of the people filing chapter 7 just do not have the money .  now we are not saying forget about all of this , but we are saying let us be reasonable .  who should we help ?  who should be first on the list of congressional priorities ?  the families who are in financial straits or the credit card companies who made a record $ 30 billion in profits last year and whose profits have soared almost triple in the last decade ?  this legislation does nothing to put caps on interest rates or late fees or the overtime limits and other penalties , even those among reasonable people .  mr. speaker , i want to make sure that everybody quite understands that i will no longer support this legislation .  i am changing my vote this year to a no vote .  this is terrible legislation , and we have only made it worse .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his leadership and his recognition on this very important legislation that is before us today .  i am very proud of the work of the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  , our member of congress , a very distinguished member of the committee on ways and means , for his initiative and leadership in presenting to the congress today an alternative that makes sense to the american people , that is fair to america 's families .  the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  speaks with authority on the issues that impact rural america , small business , and america 's families and certainly america 's family farms .  he has their interests at heart .  he knows firsthand what their challenges are .  that is what makes his proposal so wise , and we all appreciate his leadership .  mr. speaker , in the 20th century , in the early part of the 20th century , our country made a decision to honor our american value of fairness by moving forward toward a progressive system of taxation .  but under 10 years of republican rule , this congress has consistently passed legislation that has moved away from a progressive tax code .  republican tax policies have rewarded wealth over work .  in its analysis of the president 's budget , the nonpartisan congressional budget office found that the tax rate on wage income is nearly twice the rate of capital income , unearned income .  and now today republicans have come to the floor with an estate tax bill continuing their harmful approach .  the republican estate tax bill again rewards extreme wealth .  the republican approach would hurt more people than it helps by increasing taxes and administrative burdens on more than 71 , 000 estates .  and it comes at a staggering cost of nearly $ 1 trillion over 10 years once it takes full effect .  democrats want to be fair to all americans , and we support being able to pass a better life on to our children and our grandchildren .  but we can not support putting the luxuries of the super-rich before the needs of america 's families .  the difference between the democratic and republican bills is that democrats take a more responsible , indeed , a responsible approach that gives immediate tax relief to small businesses and farmers across the country .  the pomeroy substitute would provide relief to 99.7 percent of estates in america , 99.7 percent ; and .3 percent of estates would not be covered under the bill .  that is a small percentage , but a huge amount of money being deprived from the national treasury .  the savings achieved by pursuing the more fair and targeted approach put forth by the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  would cover about one half of the long-term shortfall facing social security .  think of it : if we pass the gentleman from north dakota 's ( mr. pomeroy )  bill , the savings would cover one half of the shortfall in social security down the road .  it would strengthen social security for generations to come .  that is the choice we are facing today .  do we want to put the wealthiest .3 percent of estate holders ahead of millions of american workers who have earned their social security benefits with a lifetime of work ?  do we want to continue reckless republican tax policies or return to a fair system of taxation ?  this is a remarkable choice before us , and i hope that the american people can avail themselves of the information to understand what is at stake here .  basically , it all comes back to our deficit , to our budget , and whether we have fiscal soundness in our budget or not .  what the republicans are proposing is saying to average working families in america every day they go to work , and every paycheck money is taken from their paycheck for social security .  what the republicans are doing today is putting their hand into that pot and saying we are taking that money and we are going to subsidize the super-rich in our country , the largest , wealthiest estates in our country , .3 percent .  mind you , the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  has covered 99.7 percent , which is most , of course , 99.7 percent of the people in america .  so anyone listening to this is not , odds are , affected in any positive way by what the republicans are proposing .  in fact , they will be hurt because of what it does to social security and what it does in terms of capital gains for over 71 , 000 families in america .  so i think the choice should be clear , to choose to reward work .  we respect wealth .  the creation of wealth is important to our economy .  but that does not mean we take money from working families to give more money to the wealthiest families in america .  and this at the same time as the tax cuts that the administration has proposed to make permanent , that would give people making over $ 1 million a year over $ 125 , 000 in tax cuts .  who are we here to represent ?  this is the reverse robin hood .  we are taking money from the middle class and we are giving it to the super rich , and not only the super rich but the super , super , super rich .  so let us come down and vote for america 's workers , let us come down in favor of america 's families , and let us recognize that everybody , the wealthiest as well as those not so wealthy , everyone in america benefits when we have fairness in our tax code , where we have balance in our budget in terms of our values and in terms of our fiscal responsibility .  i urge our colleagues to support the very responsible pomeroy resolution and vote no on the irresponsible and reckless republican proposal .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support of the rule and the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  i do so , mr. speaker , really to just speak about small business america and about a small businessman who raised me .  it was 17 years ago today at the too-young age of 58 that my father , ed pence , passed away .  it happens to be an unfortunate anniversary in my family , but on april 13 , 1988 , we said goodbye to my father .  he was a small business owner that many on the floor of the congress today would classify as a rich american .  now , the rich american that i saw was a man who started out in a very small business in columbus , indiana , and worked tirelessly to raise his four sons and two daughters and build a business that employed several hundred local people in support of their families .  it is really , with the memory of my father in mind , that i rise in vigorous support of the permanent repeal of the death tax .  because while my family was reeling from the grief of the loss of my father to a sudden heart attack 17 years ago today , also we were settling into the reality that much of what he had built , all of which he had already paid taxes on , was now subject to as much as a 47 percent estate tax .  my father 's death and the business that he built and the resources that he had husbanded , after paying all of his debts and all of his taxes , should not have been subject to another tax .  and we come into this well today on behalf of small business owners and family farmers just like my dad to put to an end permanently this truly immoral death tax in america .  it is the reality out there , not the heated rhetoric of rich versus poor , that explains why 89 percent of small business owners favor permanent repeal .  in fact , they know that more than 70 percent of family businesses do not survive to a second generation ; 87 percent do not make it to a third generation .  much is made of middle america that i am proud to represent and the fact that main streets and courthouse squares are largely boarded up .  people want to blame the internet .  they want to blame mass retailers .  well , i put the majority of the blame in practical terms at the doorstep of the death tax .  it has waged war on small business and family farmers all across america , and we will begin to reverse that in a permanent way today .  so in the tender memory of my father , of his earnest labors , and with it in my mind the men and women who to this day labor to raise their families and build small businesses and family farms all across america that i extol the authors of this bill .  i endorse the rule , and i vigorously support the permanent repeal of the death tax .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , this rule brings an important debate to the floor .  let me tell you what is not on the floor .  what is not being debated is whether there should be additional estate tax relief .  we agree there should be .  much has been accomplished over the last few years in that regard .  the estate tax level attached at $ 600 , 000 per individual at the beginning of this decade .  so that , as my colleague from west virginia talks about the concern of estate tax on small businesses and farms , that may have been more the case at that time .  certainly it is less the case now .  the estate tax level attaches at $ 1.5 million per individual , $ 3 million per couple , and obviously the number of estates that would have tax consequences has fallen significantly .  is it enough ?  no .  let us do something quite dramatic .  the proposal that i am offering as a substitute would double from where we are today and in a very certain and immediate way bring to $ 6 million the estate tax exclusion for couples .  couples across this country possessing less than $ 6 million in assets , no estate tax .  nothing .  gone .  immediately and certainly .  by the end of the decade , it moves to $ 7 million .  by 2009 , there could be $ 7 million in a couple 's estate .  is this meaningful ?  you bet it is meaningful .  you look at the numbers , and it will tell you that we all but make this problem go away .  looking across this country , 99.7 percent of estates in this country no longer have estate tax issues under the substitute that i am advancing .  that is 997 out of 1 , 000 .  that is pretty significant .  there are a couple of other differences .  it is one-quarter of the cost of the majority proposal , $ 290 billion , that they are talking about .  there are things they are saying that just are not so , that small businesses and family farms have major estate tax issues when the level is $ 6 million per couple .  they do not .  i represent family farms and small businesses all across the state of north dakota .  i am telling you , if we set this level at $ 6 million per couple , to move to $ 7 million by the end of the decade , we largely take care of the problem .  but beyond that , going forward , there is yet another very important wrinkle in the majority proposal .  this is the capital gains tax that their proposal would add .  it is unlike a tax relief bill that i have seen before , because , for everyone it helps , it adds capital gains taxes for many more .  right now in the handling of an estate , there is no capital gains tax .  under their proposal , they establish something called the carryover basis .  not to get technical with you , but what that does is impose capital gains tax exposure on estates .  the way the numbers work out , more estates are going to end up with capital gains consequences than get relief from estate taxes .  so you help a few ; you harm a lot .  it does not make much sense to me .  again , at a total budget cost of $ 290 billion over the first 10 years and more than $ 800 billion over the second 10 years .  this is a budget buster , my friends .  at a time when we are talking about how we address the long-term solvency of social security , to just , without a concern , pass a $ 290 billion bill to help three-tenths of 1 percent of the most affluent in this country seems to be standing priorities directly on their head .  the very people that favor privatizing social security , which is going to add risk in the social security benefit , which is going to reduce benefits sharply because they change the inflation index going forward , that is going to reduce the benefits on our children and grandchildren , want to now run up the debt on our children and grandchildren in order to help that three-tenths of 1 percent , the very wealthiest among us .  what kind of sense is that ?  so we have proposed something quite different , immediate and certain estate tax relief , $ 6 million per couple , $ 3 million per individual , right now , and in 2009 , $ 7 million per couple , $ 3.5 million per individual .  and , once more , a proposal that i think we would want to consider closely , we could take the difference between the majority bill and our bill and dedicate it to the social security trust fund .  there is a lot of talk from the other side : where 's your plan ?  where 's your plan ?  how about this one ?  let us start by addressing the problem and making a good deal of it go away .  if we took the difference , the amount of estate tax revenue over the $ 7 million figure at the end of the decade , and dedicated it to the social security trust fund , we could fill 40 percent of the hole over 75 years , almost make half the problem go away , while preserving benefits , while keeping the inflation adjustment that our grandchildren need .  i think in the consequence of our floor discussions today it is important to talk about both concepts , the immediate and certain estate tax relief alternative that we are advancing and what we could do with the difference .  they say this estate tax has to be repealed , that it is the most unfair thing in the world .  i can think of something even more unfair , and that is cutting the benefits of social security to our children and grandchildren .  that is more unfair in my opinion .  we do not have to make that trade-off .  we can make estate tax go away for 99.7 percent of the people in this country , take the balance between the bills , invest it in the social security trust fund and deal with almost half of the problem of the underfunding over the next 75 years .  that is what the minority is bringing forward today .  it is a thoroughly considered and balanced alternative , i believe a reasonable and responsible alternative , and i urge the members ' consideration .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague , the gentleman from massachusetts , for leading the debate on this important rule in this fashion .  i will just respond to my friend , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. pence )  , the preceding speaker .  it is important that we talk about real facts today and , honest to goodness , some of the language does not reflect what reality would be relative to the estate tax if you would pass the pomeroy substitute and set it at $ 6 million per couple , taking care of , making estate tax completely go away for 99.7 percent of the people in this country .  language like `` waging war on small business '' and the majority reason for why small family farms do not pass on , 99.7 percent have no , absolutely no estate tax under the proposal that we are advancing .  clearly , that language does not match the facts of the proposal that we have advanced .  we heard about the immorality of taxing for the wealthiest three out of the 1 , 000 estates in this country .  i believe another immorality is on the floor today , and that is the immorality of privatizing social security and reducing the benefits of social security for our children and grandchildren .  an essential part of the social security debate is changing the inflation index that would reduce the benefit for our subsequent generations .  in my opinion , that is immoral .  what i think we ought to have captured in this debate on estate tax is the trade-off , because they say it is just estate tax ; believe me , it is also social security .  if you take $ 290 billion out of the budget for the wealthiest three out of 1 , 000 , you impact the ability to fix social security for everybody else .  and the proposal i would like considered before the house is , let us give immediate and certain estate tax relief , 6 million per couple , and let us capture the amount over that dedicated to social security .  that would fill 40 percent of the unfunded liabilities .  in context , we are looking at a 75-year solvency figure that the president has found so troublesome he wants to privatize social security .  well , by dedicating the sums that we capture with this three-tenths of 1 percent , we could fill 40 percent of the hole on social security .  we would not have to cut benefits for our children .  we would not have to cut benefits for our grandchildren .  so what we have is a very reasonable proposal going forward .  let us make the estate tax go away for 99.7 percent of the estates in this country .  let us not impose new capital gains taxes at the time of estates , and let us dedicate the difference to addressing social security .  it brings us almost halfway there in terms of keeping all of the guarantees , while meeting the funding challenge over the next 75 years .  that is what is advanced by the minority proposal in this debate , and i hope it will get my colleagues ' close consideration .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 minutes .  mr. speaker , it is a privilege to carry this debate today on behalf of the minority , and a privilege to participate with the gentleman from missouri , who is one of my favorite members of the house .  he has presented his side very well .  he asked relative to a number of estates , would they be covered under the pomeroy substitute ?  well , i believe that a number of them would have their estate tax problems completely eliminated , because we take the exemption and we double it .  we go from today , a joint estate at $ 3 million , and we say , if you have a joint estate of $ 6 million , no estate tax .  we , like 2009 , take that up to $ 7 million in a joint estate circumstance .  so as to the question he asked , i do not know the particulars of those cases , but i expect that a number , if not all of them are covered , because 99.7 percent of the estates in this country are under that amount .  but there is a feature of the majority proposal that is not represented in our substitute , and i want to talk about it right now , and this involves the imposition of capital gains liability at the handling of an estate under the majority bill .  i can just imagine members in the majority , some of them that might have signed that `` no new tax '' pledge that was going around last congress , just wringing their hands because they are about to vote for a tax increase , a tax increase in the form of capital gains taxation on estates .  section 541 of the bill that the majority proposal would make permanent reads this way : termination of step-up in basis at death .  tax legalese , but what does it mean ?  it means new capital gains and capital gains if you have an estate that exceeds that 1.3 gross value .  you have a reporting commitment that attaches at 1.3 gross value for estate .  you know , it is the darndest tax bill i ever saw .  because , while they talk about tax relief , they are hurting more than they are helping .  i direct you to this chart .  number of estates today with capital gains issue , zero ; and that is because the taxable basis in the property is established at time of transfer in an estate .  no capital gains .  what happens under their proposal ?  well , we know that there are 71 , 000 estates in the year 2011 that are likely to have reportable amounts , in other words , gross valuation over $ 1.3 million .  some will have a capital gains issue they have to pay .  some will not .  but they are all going to have to report with the irs .  and this report is something else .  it means going back in and trying to establish what the value of the property was at the time mom and dad acquired it .  it is a nightmare .  and that is well-established in the congressional record .  because i have here the hearing , i have here the ways and means record at the time the committee considered testimony to repeal the carryover basis , the very provision they want to re-establish in tax law .  you see , it passed once before , in 1976 .  it was delayed from implementation and then repealed retroactively because of its consequences .  here is what some very interesting participants had to bring to the committee .  carryover basis fosters an insidious bias against farmers and ranchers .  carryover basis calculations for land , buildings , machinery , livestock and timber have been described as , at best , potential nightmares .  trying to establish what the taxable basis on this is , which their law would require , is a nightmare .  so says the american farm bureau in their 1979 testimony .  the cattlemen 's association , one touted as one of these that want to re-establish capital gains on estates , they say , because of its complexity , carryover base is impossible to comply with .  it will increase the tax burden and compound the illiquidity of estates of farmers , ranchers and other family business operators who sell inherited property in the normal course of business , and i quote , and find it in the record from the national cattlemen 's association .  nfib also states , i strongly urge you , as an individual and as a taxpayer and as one who professionally and through an association represents small business people , repeal the carryover basis .  so says the national federation of independent business , the very group that they have cited as trying to re-establish carryover basis in the tax code and put capital gains back on estates .  we have been here before .  we do not want to do it again .  do you not understand , voting for the repeal bill brings a new bill , a capital gains bill , and a capital gains bill to thousands that have no estate tax consequence ?  so if you want to cast a vote this afternoon for a tax relief proposal , vote the pomeroy substitute .  no capital gains in the pomeroy substitute .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 90 seconds .  you know , anyone in the accountant or tax-planning profession worrying about losing business because of the estate tax is going to be smiling broadly at the end of tonight when we pass this re-creation of capital gains tax and estates .  in fact , the aba task force report devotes almost 70 pages to discussing the problems that exist with the new carryover basis rules in their legislation .  the problems identified in the report include unequal treatment of capital losses , difficulty in applying basis adjustments to property sold during the administration of the estate , treatment of property with debt and excessive basis , treatment of installment loans , unequal treatment of pension assets , administrative problems with allocation to spousal property , discrimination in favor of spouses in community property states .  even a cursory examination of that report leads to a conclusion that serious problems exist with the new rules and that their surface simplicity is quite misleading .  let us just walk through some of the titles , some of the titles of the new capital gains law that they are going to have : basis increase for certain property ; limit increased by unused built-in losses and carryovers ; spousal property basis increases ; qualified terminable interest property ; definitions and special rules for application of subsections ( b ) and ( c ) ; fair market value limitation ; coordination with section 691 ; information returns , et cetera .  and to think that for every one taxpayer getting relief under their proposal , an additional ten are now going to face this nightmare .  it is a funny way to give tax relief .  mr. speaker , how much time remains on each side ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , in light of the imbalance of time , i would be happy to have my friend from missouri burn up a little more of his time , unless he has no further speakers .  mr. speaker , i believe we are at the end of our time , and i yield myself the balance of the time to close our side .  mr. speaker , i am feeling a bit like the man in the middle as we approach this debate .  there has been some on our side that suggests the pomeroy substitute provides too much estate tax relief .  indeed , the amounts are higher than acceptable .  obviously , we have heard from the other side they believe this is too low , but i would say to my friends in the majority , and listen to this carefully , those who approach this issue with an all-or-nothing mentality are likely to get nothing .  we can not tell what is going to happen in the year 2010 .  none of us know .  except there is one thing we know , and look at this chart , the national debt is going to exceed $ 10 trillion , $ 10 trillion , 36 percent above where we are at today , and this is based upon established budget projections .  do we really believe that that future congress is going to sit blithely by and let this become implemented ?  there is not a nickel 's worth of certainty in that .  and we all know , because as damaging as this is to the budget in the first 10 years , with $ 290 billion of revenue loss , debt service added , this is a $ 326 billion hit to the budget in the first 10 years , look what happens in the second 10 years : $ 1.3 trillion impact in the second 10 years when we count the value of the debt service .  do any of us think that we are really going to allow this to happen in the future years ?  that is why i have advanced a very different alternative , entitled certain and immediate estate tax relief , because it is certain and it is immediate , and it deals by taking the estate tax to $ 6 million per couple , $ 7 million per couple by the time we get to 2009 .  it deals with the estate tax issues of 99.7 percent of the population .  those of my colleagues looking at this chart may not be able to see this tiny red line , because that is what three-tenths of 1 percent represent with looking at the total population , three out of 1 , 000 , and we know that on average those estates are going to average $ 15 million .  so for three-tenths of 1 percent we offer an alternative that has no capital gains , that is one-quarter of the cost , that immediately phases in estate tax relief and is far and away the superior way to go .  all or nothing gets us nothing .  vote pomeroy , immediate and certain estate tax relief .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i am proud to be a part of the committee on rules , which reported out a very balanced rule that allows both sides to be heard on this issue .  the interesting thing about this issue is that there is agreement that the death tax should go away .  there is disagreement about the numbers and the number of people for whom it should go away , our side believing that it should be totally repealed , the other side believing that there are a certain number of people who should be exempt from paying this .  it is good to see that we have finally come together to recognize that the death tax is a killer for small businesses and family farms and ranches .  i am glad that that is a bipartisan agreement , and i am glad that this rule reflects that .  a wise man once joked that there is always death and taxes , but death does not get worse every year .  with the death tax in place , that is not true .  each year that passes , many family-owned farms and businesses are subject to this tax .  it is fundamentally unfair that death is a taxable event .  taxes have already been paid on the assets subject to the taxation under the death tax during the lifetime of the owners .  it amounts to a second bite of the apple for the government .  with the repeal of the tax , more small businesses and farms will stay in the hands of those families .  currently , the death tax is a leading cause of dissolution .  and we see this all the time in agriculture , that when the grandparents die they have to sell off a portion of the land so that the government gets their share so that they break up the very asset that made that farm what it was .  they eliminate the opportunity for that next generation to participate even though they worked on it themselves , growing up , paying their way through school , helping to support all of the family efforts .  that is a great cause of the loss of rural communities and small-time agriculture in this country , and i think that we can all agree that that is a shameful loss to our nation .  they form the backbone of our rural heritage .  the death tax is a virtue tax in the sense that it penalizes work , penalizes savings and thrift in favor of large-scale consumption .  in other words , if those same families had sold off everything and spent it , then they would not be subject to the death tax .  but the fact that they made a decision to hold something , to build it , to grow it so that their children and grandchildren might have a farm to continue to cultivate the bread basket for the world in , then they are taxed .  where is the fairness in that ?  mr. speaker , 87 percent of family businesses do not make it to the third generation .  unquestionably , the death tax plays a tremendous part in that statistic .  this is especially true of businesses that are land-rich and cash-poor .  that is what we call it in the south , mr. speaker , where you have all of your assets tied up in things .  you can not afford a brand-new car , you can not afford a brand-new tractor , you can not afford all the nicer things ; but yet on paper you are quite wealthy , because you purchased land , you gave value to that land as time passes .  mr. speaker , i urge that we adopt the rule and continue forward with the repeal of this scurrilous tax on death .  mr. speaker , the issue before us today is certainly not a new on new one .  during the past three congresses , the house has voted repeatedly in a bipartisan fashion to eliminate the death tax .  and today , once again , we have the opportunity to bury the death tax once and for all .  the death tax punishes savings , thrift , and hard work among american families .  small businesses and farmers , in particular , are unfairly penalized for their blood , sweat and tears -- paying taxes on already-taxed assets .  instead of investing money on productive measures such as creating new jobs or purchasing new equipment , businesses and farms are forced to divert their earnings to tax accountants and lawyers just to prepare their estates .  all too often , those families are literally forced to sell the family farm or business just to payoff their death taxes .  equally disturbing is the fact that the death tax actually raises relatively little revenue for the federal government .  in fact , some studies have found that it may actually cost the government and taxpayers more in administrative and compliance costs than it raises in revenue .  mr. speaker , my rural and suburban district in western new york is home to countless small businesses and family farms .  they 're owned by hard-working families who pay their taxes , create jobs and contribute not only to the quality of life in their communities , but to this nation 's rich heritage .  is it so much to ask that they be able to pass on the fruits of their labor -- their small business or their family farm -- to their children ?  must uncle sam continue to play the grim reaper ?  the fact is that they paid their taxes in life -- on every acre sown , on every product sold , and on every dollar earned .  they should n't be taxed in death , too .  mr. speaker , it 's time to bury the death tax once and for all .  i commend congressman hulshof for introducing this crucial legislation and chairman thomas for his continued leadership on this issue .  mr. speaker , today , congress has the opportunity to finish the task of preventing corporate malfeasance by agreeing to pass s. 256 .  included in this bill is a sensible provision that sharply limits to $ 125 , 000 the homestead exemption that many ceos and corporate officers have used to shield their assets from creditors after they plunder their shareholders ' wealth .  by empowering the government to go after the ill-gotten gains that crooked corporate officers tie up in offshore mansions , shareholders and pensioners who have been swindled can have their hard-earned savings returned to them .  in addition , this bill prohibits people convicted of felonies like securities fraud from claiming an unlimited exemption when filing for bankruptcy , protecting taxpayers from having to bear the cost of corporate malfeasance .  it also guards against fraud and abuse by requiring that high-income debtors who have the ability repay a significant portion of their debts do so , preventing them from sticking responsible borrowers with their tab .  it accomplishes all of this while preserving the ability of people who truly need to discharge their debts to do so .  for far too long , americans who work hard and pay their bills have been held accountable for the debts incurred by those who irresponsibly file for bankruptcy .  this long-overdue legislation will reform the critically-flawed bankruptcy process , and prevent affluent filers from gaming the system and passing on their bad debt to hard-working families while preserving the ability of people who truly need to discharge their debt through bankruptcy to do so .  bankruptcy should be preserved as a last resort for those who truly need the protections that the bankruptcy system has to offer -- not a tool for those who could pay their debts but choose to discharge them instead .  by agreeing to this legislation , congress will make the existing bankruptcy system a needs-based one and correct the flaw in the current system that encourages people to file for bankruptcy and walk away from debts , regardless of whether they are able to repay any portion of what they owe ; and it does this while protecting those who truly need protection .  i commend my colleagues for their hard work on this legislation , and i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this report and help honest taxpayers by closing the loopholes in the current bankruptcy system .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to the so-called bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  contrary to its name , this bill does not protect consumers and it certainly does not help honest , hard-working families with financial problems .  the only thing that this bill does is distort our bankruptcy laws so that working families are treated more like criminals than people in need of relief .  our bankruptcy laws must strike a fair and practical balance between debtors and creditors .  this means that honest people with financial troubles can make a fresh start by getting creditors off their backs .  but this bill does the exact opposite of that .  instead of helping struggling families in debt , this bill erects harsh legal and monetary roadblocks for people who are trying to file bankruptcy .  the vast majority of people who file for bankruptcy , 9 out of 10 , do so because they have either lost their job , suffered a medical emergency , or there has been a divorce or separation in their family .  these are not people who are abusing the bankruptcy system .  we are talking about recently divorced , single working mothers trying to support their children who may not be getting their child support .  we are talking about young men and women in our armed forces returning home after serving their country in iraq .  we are talking about some of the 1.6 million families who have lost their private-sector jobs since 2001 when a republican administration took over the white house .  these are honest , hard-working families who have resorted to bankruptcy to find some relief for their debts and a chance to start their lives anew .  this is a terrible bill .  it is harmful to struggling families and goes against the basic policy of our bankruptcy laws , helping families in financial trouble get a fresh start .  i urge every member of the house to stand by america 's working families by voting no for passage of s. 256 .  mr. speaker , this is actually one of the more absurd debates that i have ever heard in my life , and i think anybody who turns on the television and wonders what is going on here in congress will then conclude that the reason that this institution is held in so low regard is because we have debates like this .  let us look at what is going on in america today .  the middle class is shrinking .  study after study shows that real wages for american workers are going down ; and in the last 4 years , 4 million more americans have entered the ranks of poverty .  while the middle class shrinks , poverty increases .  the richest people in america have never had it so good .  ceos of large corporations now make 500 times what their workers make .  in america today we have the most unfair distribution of wealth and income in the history of our country and of any major country on earth .  so what are we discussing here today ?  are we going to raise the minimum wage to a living wage ?  are we really going to protect family farmers from low prices ?  are we going to stop the hemorrhaging of decent-paying jobs going to china ?  do not be silly .  we do not talk about that because corporate america does not fund those concerns .  the richest people in america said several years ago , hey , yes , we are worth billions of dollars .  that is not enough .  we are going to contribute money to our republican friends , and do you know what they are going to do ?  they are going to lower our taxes even more .  mr. speaker , we are here debating an issue that has zero impact on 98 percent of the american people .  nobody in the middle class , nobody in the working class , no low-income person pays one penny in the estate tax .  all of the estate tax is paid by the wealthiest 2 percent .  if their proposal passes , half of the benefits go to the richest one-tenth of 1 percent .  i want to ask my friends a question .  this is a question .  as my colleagues know , president bush and the republican leadership are supporting increased fees on our veterans .  they are raising prescription drug fees for our veterans , and they want to charge a $ 250 co-pay for veterans of wars who enter the va hospital .  i would like to ask my republican friends do they think it is a good idea to give tax breaks today to billionaires and to charge veterans significantly increased fees for health care .  that is my question .  i am listening .  i am listening .  i do not hear an answer .  that is the answer .  they are substantially increasing health care costs for veterans who have put their lives on the line defending this country .  they are increasing our deficit , increasing our national debt , all on behalf of the richest people in this country .  this bill is bought and paid for by millionaires and billionaires , and anyone who votes for it should be ashamed of themselves .  yes .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , what the gentleman suggested was , if someone has overwhelming medical bills , hundreds of thousands in medical bills , that they can file under chapter 7. that is not true .  if they have a job and they have $ 100 a month left over after essential expenses , they are going to have to go under a wage earner plan for the next 5 years .  every dime they have got after food and rent will go to all of their bills .  they can not file under chapter 7 . mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 211 , i call up the senate bill ( s. 256 ) to amend title 11 of the united states code , and for other purposes , and ask for its immediate consideration in the house .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on s. 256 .  mr. speaker , i yield by myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  this legislation consists of a comprehensive package of reform measures pertaining to consumer and business bankruptcy cases .  the current system has created a set of incentives that encourage opportunistic personal filings and the abuse of a bankruptcy system originally intended to strike a delicate balance between debtor and creditor rights .  these abuses ultimately hurt debtors as well as creditors , consumers as well as businesses , suppliers as well as purchasers .  the only winners in the current bankruptcy system are those who game the system for personal gain .  s. 256 restores personal responsibility and integrity to the bankruptcy system and ensures that the system is fair to both debtors and creditors .  this legislation represents the most comprehensive reform of the bankruptcy system in more than 25 years .  as many of us know , bankruptcy reform has been subject to exhaustive congressional review for more than a decade , beginning with the establishment of a national bankruptcy review commission in 1994 .  it is important to note that over the course of the last four congresses , the house has passed bankruptcy reform on eight separate occasions by overwhelming and bipartisan margins .  this bill will help stop fraudulent , abusive , and opportunistic bankruptcy claims by closing various loopholes and incentives that have produced steadily cascading claims .  central to these reforms is a merit-based test that reflects the commonsense proposition that those who are capable of repaying their debts after seeking bankruptcy relief must actually repay their debts .  s. 256 will also give the courts greater powers to dismiss abusive bankruptcy cases and to punish attorneys who encourage their clients to file such claims .  in addition , the bill prevents violent criminals or drug traffickers from using bankruptcy relief to evade their creditors .  the bill closes the `` millionaire 's mansion '' loophole in the current bankruptcy code that permits corporate criminals to shield their multi-million dollar homesteads from deserving creditors .  of critical importance , the legislation prevents deadbeat parents from abusing the bankruptcy system to shirk their child support obligations .  with respect to these reforms , the national child support enforcement association stated that s. 256 is `` crucial to the collection of child support during bankruptcy. '' some might ask why congress has been so concerned about abuse in the bankruptcy system .  the answer to this question should be obvious .  it is estimated that every american household bears an annual $ 400 hidden tax for profligate and abusive bankruptcy filings .  that is a $ 400 tax on every household that no politician has to vote for , but gets paid anyhow .  as a result , every abusive bankruptcy filing impacts hard-working americans in the form of higher interest rates and increased costs of goods and service .  our economy and the hard-working americans who sustain it should not suffer any longer from the billions of dollars in losses associated with abusive bankruptcy filings .  mr. speaker , this legislation not only deals with abuse in the bankruptcy system ; it includes many vital consumer protections as well .  s. 256 will provide the tools to crack down on bankruptcy petition mills , which often misrepresent the benefits and risks of bankruptcy relief .  it will impose heightened standards of professional responsibility for attorneys who represent debtors .  it will require certain credit card solicitations , monthly billing statements , and related materials to include important disclosures and explanatory statements on a broad range of credit terms and conditions , including introductory interest rates and minimum payments .  the bill also helps america 's family farmers and fishermen confronting economic hard times by providing more tools to assist in their bankruptcy reorganization .  the bill includes protections for medical patients in bankruptcy health care facilities and pro-privacy provisions that protect against the unwanted disclosure of personal information .  there are several other critical reforms contained in this comprehensive legislation , but the limits of time prevent an exhaustive recitation .  mr. speaker , the time for bankruptcy reform is long overdue .  bankruptcy reform legislation has been subject to more process , more consideration , more deliberation , more debate , and more voting than virtually any other legislative item in the past decade .  we have before us legislation that represents the culmination of a decade of legislative toil and persistence .  it is the product of extensive bicameral and bipartisan compromise and was approved by the other body by a vote of 74 to 25 .  we also have before us a historic opportunity to return a measure of fairness and accountability to the bankruptcy system in a manner that will curb bankruptcy abuse while rewarding the vast majority of hard-working americans who play by the rules and pay their bills as agreed upon .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to seize this opportunity to join me in supporting this legislation .  mr. speaker , before closing , i include for the record a supplemental statement acknowledging the hard work of many members and staff who have helped make this legislation possible , as well as a summary of the principal provisions of this bill .  mr. speaker , over the many years this legislation has been pending in the congress , many members , senators , and staff members have devoted themselves to making s. 256 a reality .  i would like to take this opportunity to recognize these individuals .  beginning with my colleagues in the house , i would like to mention the many contributions of the chairman of the subcommittee on commercial and administrative law ( mr. cannon )  for his hard work on behalf of this legislation .  the chairman of the financial services committee ( mr. oxley ) has also been a great resource .  i also appreciate the contributions of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , the ranking member of the judiciary committee ( mr. conyers ) and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher ) .  former members should also be recognized for their contributions .  bill mccollum is to be commended for being the first to introduce comprehensive bankruptcy reform and george gekas deserves our gratitude for his tireless efforts .  in addition , i would like to mention the following staff on the judiciary committee for their contributions : phil kiko , majority committee general counsel and chief of staff ; rob tracci , chief legislative counsel and parliamentarian ; raymond smietanka , chief counsel , subcommittee on commercial and administrative law ; perry apelbaum ; david lachmann ; matt iandoli , legislative director for representative cannon ; todd thorpe , chief of staff for representative cannon ; laura vaught , deputy chief of staff for representative boucher ; jean harmann , house legislative counsel and dina ellis , counsel for the house financial services committee .  former staffers who should also be recognized , include will moschella , joe rubin , alan cagnoli , and liz trainer .  the vital and indispensable efforts of one staff member have uniquely contributed to the bankruptcy reform legislation we consider today .  from her service as general counsel on the congressionally-created national bankruptcy review commission to her often behind the scenes work on bankruptcy reform legislation extending to the 105th congress , susan jensen , counsel to the judiciary subcommittee on commercial and administrative law , deserves special recognition .  her technical expertise in a complex area of law has resulted in dramatic improvements in successive drafts of bankruptcy reform legislation and helped establish a record of legislative history that elucidates the legislation we consider today .  her professionalism , attention to detail , and commitment to serving the house of representatives deserves the recognition and commendation of this house .  i would also like to acknowledge the countless contributions of our colleagues in the other body .  these include senators grassley , hatch , sessions , specter , biden and leahy .  this legislation has also benefitted from the hard work and devoted assistance of numerous senate staff members .  these include , rita lari , counsel for senator grassley , who has been a wonderful resource for our staff .  in addition , the following individuals must also be acknowledged : harold kim and tim strachan , counsels for senator specter ; perry barber , rene augustine , and former staffer makan delrahim , counsels for senator hatch ; and ed pagano , chief of staff for senator summary of principal provisions of s. 256 , `` the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 '' abuse prevention : s. 256 instills a greater level of personal responsibility by closing various loopholes and eliminating incentives in the current bankruptcy system that encourage opportunistic consumer bankruptcy filings and abuse .  the bill 's needs-based provisions target , for example , those debtors who have a demonstrated ability to repay their debts and channels them into a form of bankruptcy relief that requires debt repayment .  courts , under s. 256 , are given greater powers to dismiss abusive bankruptcy cases and to punish attorneys who encourage their clients to file such cases .  debtors who have committed crimes of violence or engaged in drug trafficking will no longer be able to use bankruptcy to hide from their creditors .  likewise , deadbeat needs-based reforms : s. 256 implements an income and expense analysis to determine whether a debtor has a demonstrated ability to repay a significant portion of his or her debts .  if a debtor has the ability to repay debts , he or she must either be channeled into a form of bankruptcy relief that requires repayment or risk having the bankruptcy case dismissed as an abusive filing .  this needs-based test specifies certain expense amounts -- derived from irs expense standards and other specified expenses -- that are deducted from the debtor 's income .  these include expenses for food , clothing , housing , and transportation as well as certain educational expenses for the debtor 's children .  the debtor may rebut the presumption of abuse by demonstrating special circumstances warranting additional expenses or income adjustment .  spousal and child support protections : s. 256 prioritizes the collection and payment of spousal and child support in bankruptcy cases by giving these claims the highest payment priority ( current law gives these claimants an only 7th level payment priority ) .  the bill requires bankruptcy trustees to give child support claimants important information about the availability of state child support enforcement assistance and to notify the proper state child support enforcement authorities of the deadbeat parent 's bankruptcy filing .  s. 256 allows various enforcement actions to be brought against a bankrupt deadbeat parent , including the withholding of his or her driver 's license , or the suspension of the debtor 's professional or occupational license .  it also allows state child support enforcement agencies to intercept closes the `` mansion loophole '' for greedy corporate culprits : under current bankruptcy law , debtors living in certain states can shield from their creditors virtually all of the equity in their homes .  in light of this , some debtors actually move to these states just to take advantage of their `` mansion loophole '' laws .  s. 256 closes this loophole for abuse by requiring a debtor to reside in the state for at least 2 years before he or she can claim that state 's homestead exemption -- the current residency requirement is only 91 days !  the bill further reduces the opportunity for abuse by requiring a debtor to own the homestead for at least 40 months before he or she can use state exemption law -- current law imposes no such requirement .  in addition , s. 256 requires a debtor 's homestead exemption to be reduced for to the extent attributable to the debtor 's fraudulent conversion of nonexempt assets ( e.g. , cash ) into a homestead exemption .  most debtor protections : s. 256 requires debtors to receive credit counseling before they can be eligible for bankruptcy relief so that they will make an informed choice about bankruptcy -- its alternatives and consequences .  the bill also requires debtors , after they have filed for bankruptcy , to participate in financial management instructional courses so they can hopefully avoid future financial distress .  s. 256 penalizes creditors who unreasonably refuse to negotiate a pre-bankruptcy debt repayment plan with a debtor .  the bill strengthens the disclosure requirements for reaffirmation agreements so that debtors will be better informed about their rights and responsibilities .  in addition , s. 256 requires certain monthly credit card billing statements to include specified disclosures regarding the increased interest and repayment time associated with making minimum payments .  the bill also requires certain protections for small business owners : under current bankruptcy law , a business can be sued by a bankruptcy trustee and forced to pay back monies previously paid to it by a firm that later files for bankruptcy protection .  s. 256 contains provisions making it easier -- particularly for small businesses -- to successfully defend against these suits .  promotes greater certainty in the financial market place : s. 256 reduces systemic risk in the banking system and financial marketplace by minimizing the risk of disruption when parties to certain financial transactions become bankrupt or insolvent .  federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan says these reforms are `` extremely important. '' family farmers : s. 256 helps small family farmers facing financial distress .  while current bankruptcy law has a specialized form of bankruptcy relief -- chapter 12 -- that is specifically designed for family farmers , its benefits for farmers are limited because of its restrictive eligibility requirements .  the bill responds to this problem in several key respects : it more than doubles the debt eligibility limit and requires it to be periodically adjusted for inflation ; it lowers the requisite percentage of a farmer 's income that must be derived from farming operations ; and it gives farmers more flexibility with respect to how certain creditors can be repaid .  as a result , many more deserving family farmers facing financial hard times will be able to avail themselves of chapter 12 .  in addition , s. 256 makes chapter 12 a permanent component of the bankruptcy laws and extends the benefits of this form of bankruptcy relief to family fishermen .  small business debtors : s. 256 addresses the special problems presented by small business debtors by instituting firm deadlines and enforcement mechanisms to weed out those debtors who are not likely to reorganize .  it also requires the court and other designated entities to monitor these cases more actively .  transnational insolvencies : in response to the increasing globalization of business dealings and operations , s. 256 establishes a separate chapter under the bankruptcy code devoted to transnational insolvencies .  these provisions are intended to provide greater legal certainty for trade and investment as well promote the fair and efficient administration of these cases .  privacy protections : under current law , nearly every item of information supplied by a debtor in connection with his or her bankruptcy case is made available to the public .  s. 256 prohibits the disclosure of the names of the debtor 's minor children and requires such information to be kept in a nonpublic record , which can be made available for inspection only by the court and certain other designated entities .  in addition , if a business debtor had a policy prohibiting it from selling `` personally identifiable information '' about its customers and the policy was in effect at the time of the bankruptcy filing , then s. 256 prohibits the sale of such information unless certain conditions are satisfied .  protections for employees : s. 256 requires certain back pay awards granted as a result of the debtor 's violation of federal or state law to receive one of the highest payment priorities in a bankruptcy case .  in addition , s. 256 streamlines the appointment of an erisa administrator for an employee benefit plan , under certain circumstances , to minimize the disruption that results when an employer files for bankruptcy relief .  in light of the disaterous impact that bankruptcy cases like worldcom and enron have had on their employees , reforms that more than double current the monetary cap on wage and employee benefit claims entitled to priority under the bankruptcy code .  other provisions would protect retirees in cases where chapter 11 debtors mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  mr. speaker , unfortunately what the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren )  said is not correct .  there is a means test that is contained in this bill , but 11 united states code , section 1307 which permits the conversion of a chapter 13 case to a chapter 7 case is not amended at all in any respect .  i would just like to read 11 u.s.c .  1307 ( a ) : `` a debtor may convert a case under this chapter to a case under chapter 7 of this title at any time .  any waiver of the right to convert under this subsection is unenforceable. '' so if chapter 13 is such a straight jacket , the way out is through the conversion as provided for in section 1307 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself a minute and a half .  mr. speaker , once again the opponents of this legislation are not correct .  my friend , the gentleman from massachusetts , says that someone who is injured in iraq and comes home is not going to be protected from medical expenses .  the united states government has stood behind everybody who has a service-connected injury or disability and pays for the medical treatment out of taxpayers ' money because that is the right thing to do .  secondly , he says that this bill continues the millionaires ' exemption in the eight states that have unlimited exemption .  wrong .  it plugs that exemption .  and if this bill goes down , a corporate crook can build a multimillion dollar mansion on the intercostal waterway in florida and be able to shield that asset from bankruptcy .  what this bill does is it does plug that unlimited exemption and it plugs it in a way that was negotiated out in a bipartisan manner in the conference committee two congresses ago with a motion that was made in that conference committee by my senior senator , herb kohl , who is a democrat .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , the motion to recommit creates a blanket exemption from the bill 's needs-based test , and i do not think that that is necessary because it would exempt a wealthy debtor from the needs-based test solely based on the debtor 's military service .  people who fall behind the lines of the needs-based test will continue to have bankruptcy protection under chapter 7 as is provided in the current law .  the bill also contains an exception from the needs-based test for disabled veterans who incurred indebtedness while on active duty .  crs and even the new york times recognized that the servicemembers civil relief act of 2003 provides a broad spectrum of protection to servicemembers , their spouses and their dependents ; and the revised statute , according to the new york times , is clearer and more protective than the old one .  the times also recognized that the news was apparently slow in reaching those who would have to interpret and enforce the law , which apparently includes the people who are offering this motion to recommit .  let me summarize .  already there is in law , signed by president bush in 2003 , we have responded to the special financial burdens that members of the military may encounter .  crs has said the servicemembers civil relief act provides protection for servicemembers in the event their military service impedes their ability to meet financial obligations incurred before their entry into active military service , as well as during that service .  there is a cap on the interest rates of 6 percent .  it clarifies that the balance of interest for the period of the servicemember 's military service is to be forgiven by the lender .  there are protections against evictions from rental property or foreclosures on mortgaged property .  there are restrictions on cancellation of life insurance and more flexible options to allow servicemembers on active duty to terminate residential and automobile leases .  we do not need this motion to recommit .  congress has already passed a law that provides those types of protections .  the motion to recommit should be defeated , and the bill should be passed .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  listening to the debate that we have listened to from the other side , the sole argument seems to be that it only applies to a small amount of our population , the wealthiest among us .  we know that , but i have yet to hear anybody to justify , to give us a good reason to say this is a good and fair tax and here is why .  it seems to be that the argument is being centered around the punitive basis .  let us go after the rich guys .  let us go after them and do something .  i am in favor of the hulshof bill to repeal the death tax simply because it is the right thing to do .  the death tax is wrong .  to go in and tax almost half of someone 's estate because they have accumulated a lot and to make death an incident of taxation is wrong .  it is a wrong tax , and i can not imagine anybody getting up and justifying it , other than the fact it is a revenue stream to the federal government , but it is the wrong one .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act , although the base bill does not address the estate tax in the manner i believe to be most prudent .  in 2003 , congressman doug bereuter and i introduced the estate tax relief act , which would increase the estate tax exclusion to $ 10 million and lower the top rate to the level as the top income tax rate ( currently 35 percent ) .  i think this is a much better solution than total repeal .  because estate and gift taxes have had devastating effects on small businesses -- many of which are forced to liquidate assets simply to pay taxes ranging from 35 to 55 percent of the value of the business -- i think we need to provide significant relief in this area .  my preference , however , is to reduce estate taxes without entirely eliminating them .  in the last congress , i voted for today 's base bill because if it is not enacted the estate tax , which is being phased-out over a period between 2001 and 2010 , will return in 2011 with an exemption of just $ 675 , 000 and a top rate of 55 percent .  while my first choice would be to significantly increase the exclusion and lower the top rate , i believe full repeal is preferable to the return of this onerous tax .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act .  it is a basic principle of commerce in our country that when a person makes an obligation to pay someone for a good or service , they do so .  we ought to address the fact that our nation had over 1.6 million bankruptcy filings last year , and an estimated $ 44 billion in debts are discharged annually .  when creditors are unable to collect money owed to them , we all pay the cost in the form of higher costs , higher interest rates and higher downpayments .  i want to be very clear that this legislation will not prevent those who have incurred oppressive indebtedness from filing .  it will apply a means test that weighs whether a debtor has enough disposable income to repay creditors .  if , after applying this test , the debtor has little or no disposable income , they will be able to file for straight bankruptcy just as they always have .  those who earn wages and have the ability to repay , however , will be required to file for chapter 13 bankruptcy , restructure their debt and repay a portion of it .  i have heard from a number of my constituents concerned about high credit card rates , predatory loan practices and identity theft .  i share their concern and believe that after passing this legislation today , we must redouble our efforts to pass legislation curbing predatory lending , and we must build on the legislation we passed during the last congress regarding identity theft .  this is comprehensive legislation and while supporting its passage , this body should pledge strong oversight and the willingness to review its effect on bankruptcy filers and the economy at large .  mr. speaker , this bill shows the courage to boldly go where none have gone before , to levels of public debt and levels of trade deficits that no nation has ever tried , higher than any have dared .  we have a dollar that is dependent upon our fiscal markets , a trade deficit that grows every year ; and the result of this bill and its twin cousins and related siamese twins , the other parts of the republican tax and spend or borrow and spend policy , will be a declining dollar and a declining economy or a dollar that crashes and an economy that crashes .  and this courage is all summoned up on behalf of the one quarter of 1 percent of american families it is designed to help .  we require the men and women in uniform to risk the ultimate sacrifice ; and from our richest families , we say zero sacrifice under the estate tax .  shame .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from north dakota for yielding me this time and perhaps for mentioning what i see as the only good part of this bill .  you see , i am a cpa and tax lawyer by training , and this bill is the full employment act for both my cpa friends and my tax lawyer friends .  republican after republican has come to that microphone and talked about the electrical tax , the sales tax , the telephone tax , the payroll tax , the income tax , the marriage tax , the cable tax and the fuel tax .  and what is their solution ?  to eliminate a tax that applies to only 1/4 of 1 percent of america 's families .  yes , that is right .  they want to keep the electrical tax , the sales tax , telephone tax , payroll tax , the income tax , marriage tax , cable tax and the fuel tax .  they want to vote for a bill that takes $ 290 billion out of the treasury in its first 4 plus years and about $ 70 billion a year thereafter and make it impossible for the federal government to ever give any relief for those other taxes .  it is a bill to shaft 99 and 3/4 percent of all american families .  but that does not stop there .  republican after republican has come up here and boasted how the passage of this bill will slash charitable giving .  so it is not just a loss to the federal treasury , it is a loss to our hospitals and a loss to our universities , who are strangely silent on this bill because they are afraid of angering 1/4 of 1 percent of the families in the united states who happen to be a huge chunk of their donors .  let us look at the substitute .  it is more fiscally responsible , costs about 1/4 as much , but it provides more tax relief for middle-class families .  let us look at this from the standpoint of a widow , a surviving spouse .  under current law and under the pomeroy substitute , no estate tax , no capital gains tax and little or no compliance work .  under their bill , more compliance work and sharp restrictions on the step up in basis .  so this bill is an attack on working families , an attack on the middle class , and an attack on widows .  they have lost their spouse , and now you want them to lose their step up in basis as well .  these are people who pay zero estate tax and get zero benefit from this bill .  they have lost a spouse , and that is the folks you go after .  $ 290 billion in the first 4 plus years .  it is part of an overall republican tax package .  i am on the international relations committee .  we are waging a war on terrorism .  we turn to our men and women in uniform and say , stand ready to make the ultimate sacrifice ; and we turn to the richest families in america and say , you should make a zero sacrifice .  now these republican tax policies have caused the president of the united states to call into question our intent and ability to pay u.s. government bonds .  it calls into question our ability to pay our bonds .  now , the president will not warn the chinese investors .  he wants them to buy the bonds , but he has warned every social security recipient that we may dishonor the u.s. government bonds held by the social security trustees .  this bill is part of an overall plan that keeps in effect the electrical tax , the sales tax , the telephone tax , the income tax , the payroll tax , the marriage tax , the cable tax , and the fuel tax .  and it is part of an overall plan that , well , i ought to write a commercial because there is a lot of public policy commercials out there , and i ought to write them for them .  allowing corporations to avoid american taxes just by renting a hotel room in the bahamas , $ 8 billion .  allowing millionaires to pay virtually nothing on dividend income , $ 80 billion .  eliminating the estate tax even on the richest estates , $ 290 billion .  telling our soldiers in the field that it is the billionaire families who are the ones who have sacrificed too much for america , priceless .  and the republi-card , accepted everywhere .  the very wealthy want their taxes released .  and do not forget the deficit express card , now with a new $ 12 trillion credit limit .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend from washington for yielding this time .  mr. speaker , in the last 2 years , the economy has created over 3 million new jobs .  the unemployment rate is down .  our nation 's total output , or gross domestic product , is up .  home ownership is at a record high , and personal income has increased .  our economy is strong .  to ensure that we continue to enjoy prosperity , congress should support a pro-economic growth agenda that creates jobs and helps small businesses grow .  this includes reducing taxes .  our families and our country are better off when they keep more of what they earn .  one way to enable them to do that is to pass h.r. 8 , which permanently repeals the punitive death tax .  this tax often prevents parents from passing along their life 's work and savings to their children .  family farms , ranches and small businesses are forced to be sold to satisfy the death tax rates which can reach 55 percent .  no one should be taxed throughout their lifetime and then have their property retaxed at the time of their death .  it is the wrong tax at the wrong time on the wrong people .  mr. speaker , it 's time for congress to enact meaningful bankruptcy reform .  unless we take action , people will continue to abuse the system by filing for bankruptcy as an easy out .  when people avoid their debts , someone still has to pay .  companies absorb the cost of unpaid debts by passing along these costs to consumers .  over a million people file for bankruptcy each year .  many of these filings are legitimate attempts by debtors to pay their debts and obtain a fresh start .  however , bankruptcy is too often used as a way to avoid responsibilities .  unnecessary bankruptcy filings continue to increase at dramatic rates .  often , individuals go on spending sprees for luxury goods and services just before filing for bankruptcy , knowing that they can wipe the slate clean and avoid paying for what they bought .  this is bad for consumers and bad for our economy .  when individuals avoid their debts when they could be paid off , the costs are passed on to america 's businesses and consumers .  we must ensure that debtors actually belong in bankruptcy and are not using the system to avoid their obligations .  this bill stops abuse by eliminating incentives in the current bankruptcy system that actually encourage consumer bankruptcy filings and abuse .  it requires those who can repay their debts to do so .  it also gives courts greater power to dismiss frivolous or abusive bankruptcy filings and punish lawyers who encourage these filings .  this bill also contains provisions i support to address those who abuse state homestead laws and attempt to shelter their wealth in multi-million dollar mansions .  it requires a debtor to own their homestead for at least 40 months before he or she can use state exemption law .  and , if a debtor has committed an intentional tort , a criminal act , or violated securities laws , their homestead exemption will be capped at $ 125 , 000 .  these provisions will close the loophole that currently allows debtors to abuse the homestead provision .  this legislation will encourage personal responsibility , protect consumers , and ensure that bankruptcy is used only as a last resort and is not abused by those who can afford to repay their debts .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to s. 256 , legislation that will make it harder for individuals to eliminate their debts after liquidating most of their assets by filing bankruptcy .  thousands of women and their children are affected by the bankruptcy system each year .  this bill will only inflict additional hardship on over a million economically vulnerable women and their families .  in fact , women are the fastest growing group to file for bankruptcy .  more than 1 million women will find themselves in bankruptcy court this year , outnumbering men by about 150 , 000 .  women who lose a job , have a medical emergency , or go through divorce make up more than 90 percent of the women who file for bankruptcy .  this legislation 's means test provision would require even the poorest filers -- struggling single mothers , elderly women who are victims of scam artists -- to meet complicated filing requirements to access the bankruptcy system .  in addition , the bill would make it much harder for women to collect child support payments from men who file for bankruptcy because the bill gives credit card companies , finance companies , auto lenders and other commercial creditors rights to a greater share of the debtor 's income during and after bankruptcy .  this bill pulls the rug out from under economically vulnerable women and children .  it increases the rights of creditors while making it harder for single parents and others facing financial crises .  this harsh bankruptcy reform legislation will not help those families that are struggling to get by .  this bill will do nothing to reduce the number of bankruptcy filings or address the problem of record-high consumer debt .  it is a gift to the credit card and banking industries ; but one that will be paid for by those least able to afford it .  instead of giving a handout to credit card companies , we should ensure that americans losing their jobs or struggling with medical debt have a second chance for economic security .  that is what our bankruptcy laws are intended to provide .  this bill is terrible for consumers , working families and women , and i urge my colleagues to vote against it .  mr. speaker , during rollcall vote no .  107 on motion to recommit with instructions ( s. 256 ) i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` yea . '' mr. speaker , during rollcall vote no .  108 on final passage ( s. 256 ) i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i guess it becomes my job to point out that the republicans are at it again .  another huge tax cut or break for the less than 1 percent of the richest americans while they turn their back and cut medicaid , refuse to recognize that social security is not in crisis but needs some adjustment , cut head start , cut programs for housing , cut programs for the environment , fail to provide the promised benefits to our 140 , 000 servicemen in iraq , turn their back on all that is american to give a few dollars to the very richest of americans .  now , not all republicans are that way .  i find that many of the republicans who have actually worked for a living at some point in their lives , and not just either inherited money or been at the trough of the government , actually oppose this bill .  warren buffett , the gates family , people who have done quite well think that as i do it is a stupid bill and will do nothing for our free enterprise system .  it will stifle creativity and leave us with a system where merit and ability mean nothing and heredity means everything .  $ 300 billion over the next 10 years and perhaps another $ 700 billion over the decade following that are going to be frittered away to a very small number of americans .  with that we could end this talk about privatizing social security that president bush is leading , and we could start shoring up the trust fund .  we could get rid of the doughnut hole in the poorly constructed medicare drug benefit .  we could fulfill the promise that the president and the republicans have ignored for funding no child left behind .  we could eliminate the proposed cuts to medicaid which will hurt the poorest children in this country .  and while we may help a few very rich children with an inheritance , we will cut hundreds of thousands of children 's medicaid benefits .  that could be prevented .  we could cover a large portion of the 45 million people who are without health insurance , i might add 8 million more than when president bush took office .  but republicans obviously do not care about social security or medicare or the uninsured or education or the children .  they only care about tax cuts for the very richest among us .  now , if you eliminate this , you are only going to help probably less than a couple thousand people a year , and they will arguably have by 2009 estates of over $ 7 million .  until now there has not been a family farmer or a small business who has been unable to pass the business on to the next generation .  i might add to my friend from missouri of his people in the lumber business , if their children can not get the first $ 7 million handed to them and then get a 50 percent down payment on the balance of the business and be given 10 years at less than 6 percent to pay off the balance of that , they are probably too dumb and would lose the business in no time at all anyway .  so what the current law allows is so generous , and there have been absolutely no instances , not one , of a family farmer or family business being lost , decimated or put on the auction block because of the estate tax .  in fact , 99.7 percent of all estates would be exempt from the estate tax if we just extend the tax as it applies in 2009 .  they can not show that it harms people .  they can only show that gives billions , $ 300 to almost $ 1 trillion over 20 years , to the very smallest , most select group of rich people in this country .  it is indeed a follow on of the republican mantra , give money to the rich , give it to them in huge amounts and cut back on education , cut back on health care , do not help the environment , cut back on support for our troops and cut back on improving america 's infrastructure , all in the name of helping the few rich who may be contributors to the republican party .  i urge that my colleagues vote `` no '' on the final bill .  i urge that my colleagues vote for the gentleman from north dakota 's ( mr. pomeroy )  who will offer a responsible substitute , which will at least keep the $ 300 billion from being squandered , and it will prevent this bill , which does nothing to help hardworking americans or small businesses , and i hope we can bring some sanity back to the financial code and to the economic future of this country by not passing this bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself enough time to remind the historians here that it was the republicans in the 1800s who established the original inheritance tax to prevent a nobility class from forming , an idle nobility class , in this country .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i support this motion to recommit because it provides added financial protections for veterans , military personnel and their families who are enduring financial hardships as a direct result of serving this country .  additionally , this motion to recommit offers help to members of the reserves and national guard who all too often must leave behind their family jobs and businesses .  it provides protection not just during service but also for the 2 years after service when our veterans make the transition back to civilian life .  this measure will guarantee what the servicemembers relief act does not .  it will provide exemptions from the means test , financial assistance and time , something our servicemembers selflessly give to the nation and something we should give to them .  the servicemembers civil relief act does not provide substantial bankruptcy protections .  rather , it provides a simple , temporary 90-day delay in bankruptcy proceedings once a servicemember is released from active duty .  let us be clear .  no bankruptcy safe harbor or exemption exists for our citizen soldiers under the servicemembers civil relief act currently .  this motion is not an attempt to kill the bill .  it is simply a reaction to a real problem that has been highlighted in countless news stories , by the national military families association , disabled veterans of america , and individual servicemembers .  these are people experiencing real and difficult financial situations .  i support this motion to provide this narrow protection for those men and women who have served our country , and i urge my colleagues to do the same .  i thank my dear colleague for her efforts in this behalf .  mr. speaker , in 1997 , jennifer dunn , a republican from washington , and i started this debate on the estate tax .  at that time the country was in much different shape financially than it is today .  at that time , we raised the issue for estate tax relief because i thought then it was punitive .  it had nothing to do with the theory that the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. neal )  spoke so eloquently about , and that is to keep 3 percent or 1 percent of the people from owning 99 percent of our country .  we did not want to be like england where whoever got control of the land and money , and 1 , 450 still had it 26 generations later and people who were hardworking could not break through that ceiling because of the nobility that was enshrined in their tax code .  that is why we have an estate tax .  but we raised that issue , and i voted for the bill that is being proposed today , but i can no longer vote for it .  let me tell you why .  it is because , as i look in the faces of these young people , you are looking at a house , a senate and an administration that has embarked since 2001 on the most radical , irresponsible financial riverboat gamble that this country has ever seen .  there has been no political american leadership that has ever done what this group of people who currently hold the power of government here in washington have done to this country .  since april of 2001 , in your name and mine , this government has borrowed $ 1.2 trillion in hard money .  what that means to us is that we have transferred , at only 4 percent interest , $ 50 billion a year from programs like social security , like health care , like armor for our troops , from veterans , to health care , to education , all the things that will give the citizens of this country a chance , an opportunity to be whatever it is their god-given talents give them , we have transferred $ 50 billion a year from that to interest .  and you know what is worse ?  eighty-four percent of this $ 1.2 trillion has been borrowed from overseas .  we are now sending more money overseas .  eighty-four percent of this interest check is going overseas .  let me tell you something scary .  a former official of the people 's bank of china , the country 's central bank and now an economist in hong kong , was recently quoted as saying that the u.s. dollar is now at the mercy of asian governments .  do you know what we are doing ?  we are mortgaging our country to foreign interests who do not see the world as we see it .  it has got to stop , and it has got to stop sometime , and i for one am saying i want to stop it now .  in your name , we are borrowing at the rate of $ 13 , 300 a second .  this is staggering , mind numbing .  $ 48 million an hour .  since this debate started , in our names we have borrowed $ 48 million and given the bill to those little children sitting up there .  $ 1 billion a day .  do you know how much $ 1 billion is ?  if you take thousand-dollar bills and stack them up like that , to get to a million dollars it is a foot high ; to get to a billion dollars , it is as high as the empire state building ; and to get to a trillion dollars , which is what has been borrowed in the last 46 months in your name , it is a thousand times as high as the empire state building , one thousand dollar bills like this .  we are facing a financial armageddon .  what we have done has created a financial vulnerability vis-a-vis the rest of world that is every bit as big a security interest as anything else we are going to face in the future .  i just hope that someday soon that some sense will come to this place about how we are handling or mishandling your money .  mr. speaker , in pertinent part , section 202 of s. 256 , the `` bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 , '' amends section 524 of the bankruptcy code by making the discharge injunction inapplicable to certain acts by a creditor having a claim secured by a lien on real property that is the debtor 's principal residence , so long as the creditor satisfies certain criteria .  first , the creditor 's act must be in the ordinary course of business between the creditor and debtor .  second , such act is limited to seeking periodic payments associated with a valid security interest in lieu of pursuit of in rem relief to enforce the lien .  section 202 was included because congress recognized that there are many consumer debtors who , despite filing bankruptcy , desire to repay secured obligations in order to retain their principal residences .  under current law , however , some secured creditors stop sending monthly billing statements or payment coupons for fear of violating the discharge injunction .  section 202 is intended to reassure these secured creditors that if consumer debtors want to continue making voluntary payments so they can keep their principal residences , then secured creditors may take appropriate steps to facilitate such payment arrangements , such as continuing to send monthly billing statements or payment coupons .  moreover , despite the express reference in this provision to liens on real property , section 202 should not , by negative inference or implication , be construed as limiting any rights that may have developed through existing case law , or otherwise , that permit secured creditors to send , or consumer debtors to request and receive , monthly billing statements or payment coupons for claims secured by real or personal property .  see , e.g. , ramirez v. gmac ( in re ramirez ) , 280 b.r. 253 ( c.d .  cal .  2002 ) ; henry v. associates home equity services , inc ( in re henry ) , 266 b.r. 457 ( bankr .  c.d .  cal .  2002 ) .  mr. speaker , i rise to register my opposition to the total repeal of the estate tax .  if we want to talk about values , as so many people did in the last couple of months leading up to this , let us talk about the value of supporting one 's family and supporting one 's community .  let us talk about the values of responsibility and fairness .  they dictate that everybody pay his or her or its corporate fair share .  millionaires and multinational corporations benefit the most from our taxes .  we talk about what our taxes go for .  there are dues that belong to society .  eighty percent of court cases are commercial in nature .  businesses , mostly large ones .  air traffic controllers , paid for by our taxes , they mostly support business travel back and forth .  our coast guard , our navy protecting our shipping lanes , bridges and highways , making products safe to go back and forth as well as people .  the securities and exchange commission is our tax money trying to make large corporations behave and treat each other well instead of cheating each other .  sometimes it actually works .  the fact of the matter is that this bill absolves the top three-tenths of 1 percent from their responsibility to pay their fair share .  and i say the top three-tenths of 1 percent because the democratic alternative would exclude the first $ 3.5 million , or $ 7 million for a couple .  so much for the argument of small farms and small businesses .  they would not pay a dime on the first $ 7 million and only pay a portion of anything above that .  the fact of the matter is that most of the money that is going to be taxed on that top three-tenths of 1 percent was not earned money .  that is money they got from tax-free investments .  it is money they got by appreciation , just the value of that property increasing over time .  they did not earn it .  to compensate for what these members of our society will not be paying as their fair share , small businesses , the people that go out and create payrolls , will have to pay more .  the families that go out and work every day for a living , they will have to pay more than their fair share .  and all the while this is going on , we are not even paying america 's bills .  this tax is going to be $ 290 billion off the top at a time when our debt is larger than it has ever been .  we are running annual deficits that are at historic proportions .  no family and no small business would ever operate this way .  mr. speaker , let me just close by saying they are robbing us of opportunity and prosperity and community by attacking our education and our health , our clean water , and our clean air .  all of this because they want to give america 's princes and princesses a little break at the top three-tenths of 1 percent .  let us let everybody pay their fair share .  mr. speaker , i am cosponsor of the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 because this tax is an unfair burden on american families .  the death tax puts many small businesses , those run predominantly by families , at a great financial disadvantage .  according to the small business administration , in 2001 in the dayton , ohio , metro area , which is in my district , nearly 62 , 000 people worked for businesses that employ less than 20 people .  three of my constituents , jenell ross ; her mother , norma ; and her brother rob , run a small business , ross motor cars in centerville , ohio .  when jenell 's father unexpectedly passed away in 1997 , the ross family received a tax bill for nearly half the value of their family business .  i would like to tell their story in jenell ross 's words .  she says , `` 30 years ago my father took the chance of a lifetime .  determined to achieve the american dream , he invested everything he had into ross motor cars .  like a lot of people , my father thought he would live forever .  `` he did n't .  `` when he died unexpectedly in 1997 , the overwhelming responsibility of keeping the family business afloat fell squarely '' to us .  we could never have prepared ourselves for the shock of receiving a tax bill nearly half the value of the dealership , where nearly 90 percent '' of the assets were `` tied up in nonliquid assets such as inventory , equipment , buildings , and land .  `` does the death tax impact family-run small businesses ?  yes .  my family is still experiencing its devastating effects firsthand , '' nearly 8 years later .  it is time to repeal the death tax once and for all , and i urge my fellow constituents and members to support the bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , those of us who started this process 6 years or so ago in the good faith belief that there were problems with the bankruptcy system , in the sense that people were gaming the system , and felt that there needed to be genuine reform can not help but be disappointed today because , in the process , we have lost sight of the objective of reforming to do away with the sinister influences and the advantageous corruption that is going on in the system .  i have never seen a bill that has violated more principles throughout this process .  the first one was that the consumers and the lenders got together and decided that , because the lenders were not sure that they could do bankruptcy reform without reaching a compromise and the consumer groups realized that they might not be able to stop bankruptcy reform , they set up this system called the means test , which effectively exempted from the whole bankruptcy reform system those who fall below the means test threshold .  the result is that individuals who fall below the means test threshold can continue with impunity to game the system without any kind of responsibility , and those who fall above the threshold get subjected to a set of arbitrary rules that , even if they are not gaming the system , they are taken advantage of .  so we have lost sight of that .  the second thing is we have built in a set of perverse incentives for easy credit now .  for people who fall below the means test , there is really no disincentive for them to go out and get as much credit as they can .  and for people above the means test there is no incentive for lenders to be responsible in their lending practices , because they know now they have this system that is going to protect them from people that they have made irresponsible loans to .  the third problem is that , as we have gone through this process , the more we have bought into this means test philosophy and debated this , we now get to a point at the end of the process where it has corrupted even our democratic process .  because we are here on the floor with 30 minutes of debate on our side to tell the public the problems with this bill .  this is irresponsible legislating at its worst , and i encourage my colleagues to reject this bill and vote no .  mr. speaker , i want to express my strong support for h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  i have supported this measure in the past and have introduced similar legislation to make the death tax repeal permanent .  i believe it is important that we accomplish the goal of passing this in the house and the senate and seeing this bill enacted into law .  the death tax needs to die .  along with the marriage penalty , the death tax is perhaps the most disgraceful tax levied by the federal government and it should be repealed immediately .  the death tax is double taxation .  small business owners and family farmers pay taxes throughout their lifetime , then at the time of death they are assessed another tax on the value of the property on which they have already paid taxes .  this is unfair , unjust and an inefficient burden on our economy .  i have spoken in the past about a constituent of mine , danny sexton of kissimmee , fl and owner of kissimmee florist .  he , like millions of other americans , has experienced the sad realities of the death tax .  he joined me several years ago in washington to highlight the adverse impact the death tax had on his family business .  mr. sexton , who comes from a family of florists , inherited his uncle 's flower shop and was faced with paying almost $ 160 , 000 in estate taxes .  this forced him to have to liquidate all of the assets , layoff workers and take out a loan just to pay the death tax .  he also had to establish a line of credit just to keep the operation running .  danny sexton is the reason we need to appeal the death tax .  the death tax is n't a tax on just the rich , it is a tax that hurts family owned businesses -- family owned businesses that are the backbone of this great nation .  it also caused several average workers to lose their jobs .  family owned businesses provide and create millions of jobs for american workers .  the people who worked in mr. sexton 's florist were not rich , but they lost their jobs because of the death tax .  in a recent survey conducted by the national federation of independent businesses , 89 percent of small business owners favored permanent repeal of the death tax .  why ?  because these small business owners know this tax may mean the death of their business for future generations .  according to the center for the study of taxation , more than 70 percent of family businesses do not survive the second generation and 87 percent do not make it to the third generation .  family owned and operated businesses deserve the right to be inherited by the next generation without the blow of the death tax .  in current law , the death tax is phased-out , completely repealed in 2010 .  but that is not good enough because in 2011 , the tax reemerges in full force .  that means taxpayers must plan for three different scenarios when passing along their family business -- pre- 2010 when the exemption levels are gradually increasing and the top rate gradually decreasing ; 2010 when the tax is completely repealed ; or 2011 when the tax reemerges .  this is complicated , confusing and hard to plan for -- unless a small business owner knows for certain when his or her death will occur .  when we make this tax repeal permanent , taxpayers will have the ability to make long-term financial plans with certainty and will have the opportunity to pass on their hard earned family businesses and farms to future generations .  it will also ensure that those who work for these small businesses are able to keep their jobs .  i urge my colleagues to vote for h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  mr. speaker , for years , honest but unfortunate consumers have had the ability to plead their case to come under bankruptcy protection and have their reasonable and valid debts discharged .  the way the system is supposed to work , the bankruptcy court evaluates various factors including income , assets and debt to determine what debts can be paid and how consumers can get back on their feet .  the bill before us preserves that right for those individuals who simply get in over their heads and have no other way out unfortunately , some dishonest individuals have taken advantage of our bankruptcy laws by hiding assets , racking up debt in anticipation of filing for bankruptcy , using bankruptcy as a financial planning tool , and walking away from that which they owe .  this hurts our economy because it forces retailers and businesses to simply raise the prices of goods and services for honest americans .  all americans end up paying the costs for those who have gamed the bankruptcy laws .  i support s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  i am a cosponsor of the house version of this bill .  this common sense legislation preserves the right to file bankruptcy for those who truly can not repay their debts while ensuring that those who do have the ability to repay a portion of their debts do so .  s. 256 provides the same kinds of bankruptcy reforms the house has approved twice before .  it restores the principles of fairness and personal responsibility to our bankruptcy system and protects the rights of consumers .  s. 256 also requires creditors to help prevent credit card abuse through new disclosures and educational provisions .  this is a good bill for average american consumers , for american businesses , and our economy as a whole .  mr. speaker , i rise today as a cosponsor of h.r. 8 to express my strong support for this important legislation to permanently repeal the estate or `` death '' tax .  the estate tax is one of the most unpopular , destructive taxes collected by the federal government .  it forces many small businesses and farms to dissolve , undermines incentives for work , savings , and investment , and leads to unnecessary development of environmentally sensitive land .  by permanently repealing the estate tax , we would be eliminating a cruel tax that devalues the hard work and confiscates the savings of some of our most productive citizens .  as we all know , the estate tax is scheduled to be totally repealed on january 1 , 2010 ; unfortunately , this repeal will sunset on december 31 , 2010 .  at that point , unless the congress acts , the estate tax will revert to the 2001 level .  as no one i know can accurately guess which year they might pass on to the hereafter , only one year of complete relief of the estate tax is not only cynical -- it 's bad policy .  the uncertainty of not knowing whether or not the death tax will really be repealed , makes it difficult for american taxpayers to make plans for their futures , their spouses ' futures , and the futures of their children .  additionally , the tax increase that would result if congress fails to act would be entirely unfair to many of our constituents .  on the one hand , i am pleased that the house is once again taking action today to rid our tax code of this punitive measure .  but we 've done this several times in the past and each time it has gotten bogged down in the other body .  let 's hope we do n't have to meet again to do what should have been done years ago .  let 's do the right thing today .  let 's finally and irrevocably repeal the death tax .  mr. speaker , i rise today to express my strong support of the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  as a cosponsor of this important legislation , i think it is absurd for the federal government to continue punishing the families through double-taxation .  rather than taxing people when they die , we should be encouraging families to save for the future through hard-work and sound financial planning .  the death tax is one of the most burdensome and counterproductive of all taxes .  small businesses create two-thirds of all jobs in the united states , and 40 percent of gdp in the united states is generated by small businesses .  when the owner of a small family business passes away , this tax causes families and small business owners severe financial hardship , often to the point that the business must be liquidated .  it is offensive that the government taxes someone all their life then taxes them one last time when they die .  families should never have to visit the irs and the funeral home on the same day .  a permanent repeal is good for small businesses , family farmers , and the next generation of entrepreneurs .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote for the repeal of the death tax .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  i came to congress to promote the ideals of freedom , security and prosperity .  embodied within these principles is the duty of the american people to take responsibility for their actions -- including control of one 's personal finances and investments -- without undue influence from the federal government .  under current law , bankruptcy protection has increasingly become a first stop rather than a last resort .  our credit markets have been undermined on a daily basis because of the abuse of the existing laws .  all too often , people run to the shelter of bankruptcy to escape the consequences of their actions , all to the detriment of the rest of society .  that is fundamentally wrong .  mr. speaker , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act reforms existing bankruptcy law to stem the rise in bankruptcy abuse while maintaining its protections for those who really need them .  the act places compassionate , coherent , and common-sense reforms on the current system .  it ensures that frivolous costs are no longer unfairly passed on to american families .  mr. speaker , as a supporter of the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act , i encourage my colleagues to vote for this well-balanced measure that will protect those individuals who need a fresh start while cracking down on abuse of the system .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i thank the gentleman for his leadership on this issue .  i think it is important that we spend a moment or two and talk about how we got here , why do we have a death tax and what is its consequence ; what is the fundamental we are talking about .  the death tax began in 1916 in order to fund world war i , a noble cause but a cause that has long since passed .  it remained through the 1920s and 1930s under the rationale that we should prevent the accumulation of wealth , an issue more than addressed with our current anti-trust laws .  the death tax has become a harmful relic of previous times .  it survives through the inertia of government and now has the consequence of punishing hard work and success .  it harms families , and it kills small businesses .  families should not have to visit the undertaker and the tax collector on the very same day .  the death tax is fundamentally unfair and violates what should be our principle of freedom and liberty and the imperative of personal property rights .  freedom and liberty demand that hard-working americans be able to leave their children and their grandchildren the results of their diligence and their success and not have washington get a windfall .  i urge all of my colleagues to act positively today on behalf of all americans and let the death tax die for good .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from washington ( mr. hastings )  for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this rule and h.r. 8 .  i applaud the efforts of the leadership and the gentleman from missouri in bringing forward h.r. 8 to finally bury the death tax once and for all .  one thing i have learned in the short time i have sat here is that the democrats really look at the person whom this bill would affect , and , by the way , i do not think any of them are watching this on tv right now because they are all probably at work , but they are looking at the person whom this bill would affect as someone who got up early , worked hard all his life , looked after his family , built infrastructure , saved money , put capital back into this system , provided jobs , benefits , health care for people , and the democrats look at this individual as a gift who keeps on giving .  one of the things our country needs is individuals who are willing to work hard and save their money .  it is the basis of our economy and the american dream .  this country is a wonderful land of opportunity .  anyone can work hard and be whatever they want to be in this country .  yet our tax system directly discourages savings by limiting contributions to iras and taxing dividends .  when one works hard and saves , they should be rewarded , not punished .  the current death tax punishes people for saving their own money , for fulfilling the american dream .  tax cuts do not cost the u.s. government money .  this is something that i think is misunderstood up here .  cutting taxes does not cost the government money .  it allows people who earn that money to keep more of it in their pocket .  this congress must recognize that tax cuts spur economic growth .  we have seen this in the reagan tax cuts that led to the boom of the 1990s and in this president 's tax cuts that have brought us out of the recession that this country experienced after 9/11 .  as a small business owner , i know firsthand how hard one has to work to build a business .  and most times the assets of a family business are not in cash , or easily so .  when a family business is hit with an estate tax , it often requires the selling of a large amount of inventory or other assets in order to pay the debt .  that is not right .  that hurts families who want to continue the legacy of their loved ones who have passed away .  why do we want to harm or punish or exploit those who work their hardest to create an inheritance for their loved ones ?  the death tax has made crooks out of honest people because they have to search for all kinds of ways to avoid paying the tax .  and the reason they do not want to pay this tax is because they hate to see everything that someone that they loved and deeply cared about who spent their whole life building is taken away by the government .  small businesses should not be run while looking over one 's shoulder to make sure the tax man is not about to get them .  small business owners must be able to focus on their business .  more than 70 percent of small family businesses do not last beyond the second generation , and the estate tax plays a large part in that .  having someone pay half of their assets to the government is absolutely wrong no matter what is being paid .  we all know that people can manage their own money much better than the government .  one of the things i hate more than anything is a double tax .  when the government takes its bite out of the apple , it should not get a second bite .  yet the death tax takes an even bigger bite out of the money that has already been taxed .  economic studies have shown that the cost of trying to comply or avoid the death tax consumes as much out of the economy as is generated by the death tax itself .  the death tax also hits those who can not afford a lawyer or a cpa to help them .  if their assets are not in cash , as in most family businesses they are not , they have to make a huge burden and sacrifice that they are not ready for by having to get somebody else to advise them about how to take care of their families and their children .  and in spite of all this , the death tax does not even generate that much revenue or `` windfall profit '' for the government , yes , a `` windfall profit '' for the government , while placing this huge burden on the families of this country .  it is not right .  the idea of the tax coming back in 2011 is amazing .  it just does not make sense , and people can not make any long-term financial plans .  getting rid of the death tax will simplify our nation 's laws and ease the burden on our country .  if it takes a cpa or a lawyer to figure out what one is trying to do and what burdens the government has put on them , then it is too much of a burden .  we need to do everything we can to lessen that burden .  repealing the death tax is the right thing to do .  although i was not in congress when the phase-out of the death tax began , i am thrilled to be here today to cosponsor and vote for it to be completely eliminated .  and i urge all of my colleagues to do the same .  mr. speaker , i strongly support h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 , and encourage my colleagues to pass this important legislation .  this vital legislation will permanently repeal the estate tax , a tax that is unjust , inefficient , and harmful to small businesses , the backbone of our economy .  repeal of the death tax will create a system that is more equitable and more productive for our economy .  the death tax is a burden on our economy that costs the country between 170 , 000 and 250 , 000 jobs every year .  in louisiana , our family-owned farms have been faced with decreasing profitability and in many instances the death tax is an additional burden that they can not carry ; this tax is a leading cause of the dissolution for thousands of family-run businesses across the country .  it also diverts resources from investment in capital , slowing research and development at a time when our country is facing growing competition around the world .  we can not afford to continue discouraging productivity and innovation .  furthermore , the death tax is inefficient .  since the 1930 's , revenue from the tax has fallen steadily as a percentage of total federal revenue .  compliance costs each year can be almost as high as the tax itself , around $ 22 billion in 2003 ; thus every dollar raised by the death tax is $ 2 that could have been invested in capital and new jobs .  the economic damage ofthe death tax is reason enough for its repeal , but it is also fundamentally unjust .  the rate of taxation is as high as 47 % , and this is in addition to the taxes that were already paid on the assets subject to this tax .  the death tax also discourages hard work and savings and instead encourages large-scale consumption .  at a time when we should and need to be encouraging individuals to save for their future , we can not continue to send this mixed message .  by repealing the death tax we will create a tax policy that is more efficient , more equitable and more productive for our economy .  i urge congress to act today to permanently repeal the death tax and ensure that our future generations will be able to carry on the heritage of our forefathers .  mr. speaker , today i voice my strong support for the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  it is imperative we pass this very important legislation .  the death tax is an unreasonable and unfair burden on thousands of american families , small businesses , and family farms .  the death tax is the largest threat to the vitality of family-owned businesses and farms because most of their owners have the entire value of their business or farm in their estate .  the federal government currently receives nearly half of an estate when the owner passes .  as a result , more than two-thirds of family businesses do not survive the second generation and nearly 90 percent do not make it to the third generation .  so much for the american dream .  rather than encouraging people to build their own livelihoods , the death tax discourages hard work and savings .  according to the heritage foundation , the death tax costs our country up to 250 , 000 jobs each year .  by permanently abolishing this tax , we could add more than 100 , 000 jobs per year .  as my colleague , representative sam johnson of texas , said : americans receive a birth certificate when they are born , a marriage license when they are wed , and a tax bill when they die .  this is a disgrace .  i encourage my colleagues to vote `` yes '' for the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  mr. speaker , we have heard a lot of rhetoric here today , and some of it a bit disingenuous .  i think it is a bit disingenuous to say in a loud tone , demanding an answer to some rhetorical question , and then demand , well , i hear none , when all of us here are observing the rules and not interrupting .  it is a bit interesting to hear people talk about red herrings , and i like hearing from people across the aisle that they want to talk about real facts .  so let me talk about real facts .  this , my friends , is a music box .  it plays amazing grace .  i would wind it up and play it now if the rules allowed that .  it belonged to my great aunt lillie .  she was land rich .  over a hundred years their family accumulated land , farm and ranch .  i bought this music box at an irs auction where the irs forced the sale of everything she owned .  they accumulated about 2 , 500 acres of farm and ranch land .  she died in july of 1986 , and shortly thereafter land was dumped on the market .  times were rough , and the value of the land that was around $ 2 , 000 an acre when she died went to $ 600 or $ 700 an acre .  the irs was actually very gracious .  they gave a couple of extensions or so .  they allowed another appraisal , but it was around $ 2 , 000 an acre when she died .  the irs required the sale of every acre of land that they owned .  they sold every item out of her home .  if anybody in the family wanted anything , we had to show up at the auction and buy it .  i bought this keepsake to remember my great aunt lillie , who had been so gracious and kind and a great farm woman and a great gentlewoman .  so if you want to talk about the death tax in real facts , here it is .  the death tax provides no grace , amazing or otherwise .  it is a socialist notion , and it needs to go away .  mr. speaker , today i rise in support of permanently repealing the death tax .  i would like to thank the gentleman from missouri for his leadership on this issue and his good timing , for in 2 days the tax man cometh .  as i look at these young people in the gallery today , i say to them , this bill is about you .  it is about the youth in this country .  for too long , the federal government has been taxing working americans , not once , not twice , but three times , on their hard-earned money .  when they earn it , the government takes an income tax .  when they spend it , the government takes a sales tax .  and finally , even when they die , the government takes a tax from the grave .  in addition to being bad policy , the death tax is morally wrong .  it confiscates private property and is an unbearable cost to small businesses , ranchers and farmers , which is precisely why the farm bureau supports this bill .  i could tell you many stories about families that were forced to borrow large sums of money or sell off or parcel out their farms or businesses , dividing their families .  i could tell you about the berdolls from austin , texas , in my district who , after paying off a 30-year mortgage , spent 20 more years paying this unfair tax burden .  they literally paid for their farm twice .  the names may change , but the story is the same .  it is time we removed this financial burden from the backs of those pursuing the american dream .  we must guarantee that people do not have to suffer the same hardships as the berdolls .  i urge my colleagues to support this important measure .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 283 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  we have had a number of our colleagues make observations , just as the gentleman from oregon did , about the importance of not only the debate that takes place here in the house but also about our desire to make homeland security even better , more robust , more dynamic , aiming at the threat .  we heard the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  talk very eloquently about the need for border control , for us to make sure that those people who might be terrorists or may be criminals entering this country .  i am sure we will hear a debate about cargo , cargo ships , thousands of containers that come to this country every day , the commerce of this country that is affected .  we know that we talked yesterday in the committee on rules about the canadian border and how the canadian border needs the attention that they not only deserve but also with the flow of goods and services with the economies that are affected and products and services that are denied when the backlogs occur .  each of these has been a part of the arguments , the debates , the discussions that the gentleman from california ( mr. cox )  has taken into account , has made sure that he has taken them to the homeland security department , has spoken with the administration .  it just makes me very proud today to see our members who are able to cogently come up with not only good answers and better decision-making processes but an abiding faith in what we are doing here today .  i am proud that this debate , some 5 hours of debate that will take place today about this very important subject where members of congress are able to come down and really identify their specific suggestions that they have .  i think this process works .  i think the committee on rules was wise in what it did .  i think the gentleman from california knew when he put together this rule with our leadership what it would look like .  it is working today .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , we spoke earlier about how members provided information back and forth not only to the gentleman from california ( mr. cox )  and the homeland security department but also about how we were able to have a committee on rules meeting yesterday with thoughtful ideas that were presented yesterday .  our next speaker was a part of those thoughtful ideas .  he not only sat through hours of testimony , quizzing members about their questions and comments , things that would make things better , but also a few ideas himself .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , as the gentleman has noted , there will be 5 hours of debate today .  there will be a democrat substitute that will be included , some 200-plus pages that will allow not only full debate under these 5 hours but an opportunity for members to come down , just as the gentleman from massachusetts has done , to provide each member with information about how important this bill is .  and i am really proud of the time that we have .  the committee on rules did a great job .  mr. speaker , i have no further requests for time , and i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , today we have had a great debate .  a few people showed up and expressed some concern about what they had , and i would like to address that so that the members are aware .  the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  and the gentleman from georgia ( mr. barrow )  did come before the committee on rules .  the committee on rules did not put it in the bill , but it is not in the democrat substitute either , so the democrat leadership chose not to include that in their substitute .  we also had some discussion about air cargo .  for those members who are interested , air cargo will be in the substitute ; it will be in section 519 .  republicans addressed the issue .  we have doubled the number of air cargo inspectors that would be at the airports to make sure that we are looking at the cargo .  today has been a good debate , an opportunity for members to come forth and speak about the important things about this bill .  the gentleman from california ( mr. cox )  has our admiration .  he has done a great job .  the committee on rules i believe did a fair job .  i would also at this time like to thank the white house and the liaisons that the white house provided to us , brian conklin for his great leadership , chris frech for his hard work with us , and certainly their superstar at the white house , elan elinjg , who took time to make sure that members were updated , not only about the position of the administration , but about how they could work closely with members of congress .  so i think today has been another successful opportunity for us to begin the 5 hours of debate that will take place today where every member will have an opportunity to come down and express themselves and where we will have a democrat substitute that will be over 200 pages where they are able to express the things which they believe are best .  members of congress will be able to vote and a decision can be made today .  mr. speaker , i am proud of this process .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  stem-cell research holds tremendous promise for advances in health care for all americans .  stem-cell research may one day lead to treatments for parkinson 's , alzheimer 's , arthritis , cancer , diabetes , multiple sclerosis , spinal-cord injuries , lou gehrig 's disease , strokes , severe burns and many more diseases and injuries .  however , mr. speaker , nearly 4 years ago , the president made an arbitrary and shortsighted decision to limit federally funded embryonic stem-cell research to stem-cell lines that already existed .  at that time , on august 9 , 2001 , the president promised 78 stem-cell lines would be available to federal researchers , yet almost 4 years later , there are at most , only 22 lines available .  even worse , many of these lines are contaminated with animal cells that make them unusable for human therapeutic study .  mr. speaker , the time has arrived for congress to unshackle our researchers and scientists and allow them to expand the number of stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research .  indeed , mr. speaker , our own top scientists and officials at the national institutes of health , nih , have stated that the president 's 2001 limitations have caused us to fall behind in this research field .  the nih should be leading this cutting-edge research , yet it is in jeopardy of failing in this role should the president 's policy be allowed to continue .  some states , such as california , are attempting to fill the void left by the lack of federal funding .  however , mr. speaker , as the director of the nih has warned , this could lead to a patchwork of stem-cell policies , with different laws and regulations which could defeat the type of collaborative research nih is chartered to carry out .  mr. speaker , h.r. 810 would simply allow federal funding for research on embryonic stem-cell lines regardless of the date on which they were derived .  this means researchers and scientists would be eligible to utilize their federal funds for research on a new stem-cell line as long as it met the strict ethical guidelines contained in the bill .  those rules restrict stem cell lines to embryos that have been created originally for fertility purposes , and that are no longer needed for fertility .  second , the bill requires that the embryo have no further other use and be intended for destruction .  also , there must be written consent for donation of the embryo from the individuals for whom the embryo was created .  finally , the bill calls for the director of nih to issue guidelines to ensure that federally funded researchers adhere to ethical standards .  mr. speaker , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 is needed to ensure that the full promise of embryonic stem-cell research is fulfilled .  h.r. 810 allows research to take place in a safe , structured , and ethical manner .  while all stem-cell research is important , the unique ability of embryonic stem cells to give rise to any tissue or cell in the body that makes these stem cells critically important to medical research .  therefore , i urge my colleagues to support this legislation and lift the president 's restrictions that now obstruct effective federally funded embryonic stem-cell research .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 810 .  this bill , which we have already heard today , would reverse the embryonic stem cell policy instituted by the president of the united states in 2001 , and i believe it is very misguided , in my opinion .  i wish to thank the majority leader , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , and the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  for their work on this legislation against h.r. 810 .  they have already outlined many of the reasons why the bill should be defeated , but i would like to share some additional thoughts .  first , let me say that good people can disagree on this issue .  however , what we are discussing today is the federal funding of the embryonic stem cell .  according to the statement of administration policy this morning , the administration strongly opposes passage of h.r. 810 .  the bill would compel all american taxpayers to pay for research that relies on the intentional destruction of human embryos to obtain stem cells , overturning the president 's policy that supports research without promoting ongoing destruction .  there are other vast financial resources available to fund this controversial issue .  therefore , i urge my colleagues to vote against and not allow embryos to be killed for federal funding research that is ethically and scientifically uncertain .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i rise today to oppose public funding for the destruction of human embryos .  there is actually a very simple reason for that , and that is because you and i were once embryos .  now , an embryo may seem like some scientific or laboratory term , but , in fact , the embryo contains the unique information that defines a person .  all you add is food and climate control and some time , and the embryo becomes you or me .  now , there are people who want to use public money to destroy embryos , and they talk about this bill as being a good first step .  what happens if we run the clock to step two or step three ?  my own daughter wrote a little story , and i will read it , about step three : `` i lived with 40 others in a compound supervised by cool , efficient orderlies .  instead of playing , i stood pondering a troubling dream from the night before .  it was of a loving father giving his child a name .  i have always been just 52561b .  `` i started imagining what it would be like to be named when the lab technician called me down the sterile white hall to my monthly checkup .  i was given the usual clear injection and scanned .  the medic flipped through the images which showed my organs and wrote , `healthy , still usable ' across the file .  `` several weeks later , i heard footsteps outside my cell and low voices .  the door unlocked and i was led again into the clinic and placed on the stainless table , but the injection this time was amber colored and i immediately sensed that something was wrong .  numbness started spreading across my body , great agony , no breathing , and the table was lifted and i slid down a chute into a large , steel box with waste paper and garbage from the lunch room .  `` my body now thrashed uncontrollably , but as everything grew dark , there was a bright figure who seemed to protect me .  he looked at me with such love and said , `i have given you the name tesia , which means `` loved of god. '' ' `` i awoke to see a wrinkled face with twinkling dark eyes framed by white hair .  he must have seen my questioning expression .  he explained , `you were a clone being held as a source for body parts , but when a recipient dies , the clone is considered useless and is given a lethal injection .  i managed to get to you before the poison finished its work. ' `` i was stunned .  after a pause , he said , `what shall i call you ?  ' at first i was startled until i remembered .  i said , `tesia. '' ' mr. speaker , this building was built by our founders on pillars , but not just pillars of marble .  one pillar was the conviction that god grants life as an inalienable right , and they fought so that pillar would not be toppled by tyrants .  and our sons and daughters fight so that pillar will not be toppled by terrorists .  we must vote today so that that pillar will not be toppled by technology that is run amok .  oppose public funding which destroys little you 's and me 's , and oppose this harvest of destruction .  mr. speaker , i am fortunate to represent the university of wisconsin , madison , where dr .  jamie thompson and his team were the first to derive and culture human embryonic stem cells in a lab .  these cells can be described as the parent cells of all tissues in the body .  embryonic stem cells open the possibility of dramatic new medical treatments , transplantation therapies , and cures .  but at 9 p.m .  on august 9 , 2001 , the hope and promise of this embryonic stem cell research was greatly curtailed .  president bush declared that researchers who received federal funding could work only with embryonic stem cell lines created before that date and time .  there were supposed to be 78 lines that were eligible for federally funded research .  however , due to age , old technologies , contamination , only 22 are useful for research today .  mr. speaker , why are we tying the hands of our scientists who receive nih grants or other federal dollars to support their research ?  why are we curtailing scientific progress in america while scientists in other countries rapidly seize the opportunity inherent in advancing this research ?  h.r. 810 creates strong new safeguards and guidelines concerning research on human embryonic stem cells .  strict criteria , including written informed consent for donation , must be met before federal researchers can derive and culture new stem cell lines .  some members on the other side of this debate say their constituents are opposed to their federal tax dollars being used on this groundbreaking science .  well , i have constituents as well , like young jessie alswager of madison , wisconsin .  jessie has juvenile diabetes , and every year he comes to washington to lobby for this research to move us closer to a cure .  jessie is only 8 ; so i do not think he pays taxes yet ; but his mom , michelle , sure does .  and michelle , like millions of other americans who could be helped by this science , very much want their tax dollars spent on stem cell research .  i urge support of the castle-degette bill .  mr. speaker , this issue is more than facts and figures .  for me it is personal .  it is about my children , madison , jeb and ross barrett .  it is about my nieces and my nephews , hayden and english and jason and andrew .  they are not just names , they are living , breathing human beings .  they are people i care about , they are people i love .  it is my family .  and they began life as an embryo .  let us be clear , embryonic stem cell research is completely legal .  what we are talking about today is whether taxpayer dollars should be used to destroy potential life , and , for me , life must supersede all other considerations , especially for the purpose of medical experimentation .  life is so precious , mr. speaker , and as long as i am a united states congressman , i will do everything i can to protect it .  mr. speaker , we have just heard an impassioned plea to proceed with embryonic stem cell research .  tomorrow we are going to vote on a bill that would expedite embryonic stem cell research .  i have here the latest issue of time magazine .  it just arrived in our office , may 23 , and the lead article in it says `` why bush 's ban could be reversed. '' it is talking about stem cell research .  in view of the interest all across america and in view of the fact that tomorrow we are going to be voting on a bill , i thought it might be well this evening to spend a few minutes putting this debate in context .  what are stem cells ?  this is a new term to many americans .  our first chart is a depiction of the development of early embryos and then all of the tissues in the body which develop from this embryo .  the ultimate stem cell here is the zygote itself .  the zygote is produced by the union of the egg from the mother and the sperm from the father .  a stem cell is a cell which has the capability of differentiating into a number of other cells .  of course , that is the hope of embryonic stem cell research , that we might induce a cell to develop into a tissue , an organ or cells which will be useful in treating diseases .  this is a very abbreviated depiction of the early development of the embryo because it skips the morula stage , and we will come back to that in a few moments because that is the stage where most of the attention is focused now .  this goes from the zygote through the morula and finally , to the blastula and then to the gastrula .  here we see in the gastrula the development of what we call the germ layers .  i guess you would say that a cell from each of these three germ layers , a cell from the endoderm , a cell from the mesoderm or a cell from the ectoderm , are all stem cells because they are destined to become a lot of different tissues and organs in the body .  from the ectoderm develops our nervous system and the skin .  from the mesoderm develops most of the mass of the body , all of the bones and all of the muscles , the heart , the red blood cells and so forth .  and then the endoderm , although widely dispersed in the body represents less mass in the body because it is the lining of the lung and the digestive tract .  my chart shows the germ cells , the sperm in the male and the egg in the female .  now there are cells in all of these that one could say were stem cells .  tissue , and blood is a tissue , the tissue which has the most obvious stem cell that students were taught at least 50 years ago when i first was studying these things , is the stem cell in the bone marrow from which a number of different blood cells develop .  when you are working with adult stem cells , if you want something other than the organs from which this cell could differentiate , then you need to de-differentiate the cell .  in other words , you need to convince the cell that it is not exactly what it is as a result of the development process , that it returns to its original undifferentiated , or relatively undifferentiated state , and then it can make other tissues .  the embryonic stem cells philosophically certainly hold the most promise because they are cells from which all of the tissues and organs of the body develop .  there is the rationale then that these embryonic stem cells hold the promise of producing anything and everything that might be needed for fighting diseases .  there is enormous theoretical potential from working with stem cells .  they are useful in treating diseases that result from tissue or organ deficiencies .  we need to differentiate these diseases that result from the action of pathogens .  there is a very large list of diseases that theoretically might be treated by stem cell application .  diabetes is one of those .  it , by the way , represents the largest cost of all the diseases in this country .  this is probably the one that in my experience is the most heart wrenching because i have seen these little children come to my office .  many times during the day and frequently at night they have to prick their finger , their hand , their ear lobe , something in their body to get a drop of blood , and now we have new instruments that require a pretty small drop of blood , and then this new almost miracle instrumentation analyzes that blood to see what the glucose content is so that they know how to set that pump .  many of them have embedded in their side a little hockey puck size pump that pumps insulin .  this of all the diseases , mr. speaker , is the one that perhaps most obviously might lend itself to cure through stem cell research .  giving insulin to a diabetic does not cure the disease .  it simply delays the inevitable .  the person whether they are young or old will go on to have circulatory problems .  they may lose their eyesight .  circulation in their legs may be so bad that their toes become gangrenous and have to be removed .  when you see these little children come through your office suffering with this disease , your heart really goes out to them and you want to do everything that you possibly can to make sure that they have every potential for a healthy life .  and they will not live so long , they will not live so well as the average person in spite of all the miracles of medicine today because insulin does not cure diabetes .  but if through embryonic or adult , for that matter , if you could do it , stem cell research , if you could develop islet of langerhan cells , you could then put them anywhere in the body .  in our bodies , they reside in the pancreas .  i am not sure why because what they do and what the pancreas does are two very different things .  the pancreas secretes a large number of enzymes for digestion in the small intestine and the islet of langerhan cells just happen to be resident there .  they could be anywhere .  they could be in your tongue , they could be in your toe , they could be in your ear lobe .  they could be anywhere as long as there is a blood supply there to pick up the insulin that is made by these islet cells .  there is a long list of diseases : multiple sclerosis , lateral sclerosis , lou gehrig 's disease .  i have personal familiarity with this because my grandmother died of this a number of years ago , and i remember as a little boy standing by her bedside as she deteriorated and finally the only way that she could communicate with us was by blinking her eyes .  she could not move anything else .  she had no other way to communicate with us .  there is a hope , realizable , who knows , until we conduct the research and do the medical experimentation , but there is a hope that one might develop from stem cells tissues that could be injected into people with multiple sclerosis or lateral sclerosis .  sclerosis , by the way , means a scarring .  what happens is that there is a scarring that inhibits the function of these nerves .  alzheimer 's disease , that is frequently mentioned .  that is a particularly tragic disease .  although it was not specifically diagnosed in my mother because she had other ailments that were easier to diagnose , she lived to be 92 and i am sure that she had alzheimer 's because she had many of the symptoms .  it was really tragic to watch a woman who was very bright and vital lose her ability to remember , lose a sense of proportion , to be calling , roscoe , roscoe .  i would say , i 'm here .  she said , oh , you 're not roscoe because my father was roscoe , sr .  and she was way back 50 years earlier in her memory .  there is a hope that stem cell research could help cure diseases like this .  i have here a very large number of autoimmune diseases .  there are 63 of them here .  i have mentioned a couple of them .  autoimmune diseases are diseases where the body fails to recognize itself , that is , the parts of the body that have to do with recognizing foreign invaders and assimilating them , ejecting them , killing them .  very early in our embryonic development , we have a very special kind of life cell which we call t cells .  very early in embryonic development , they are imprinted with who you are .  there are 6.5 billion of us in the world and these t cells are smart enough to recognize a difference .  there may be somebody out there close to you , but nobody out there quite like you ; and you try to take their body organ and put it in you , these t cells are going to recognize it as foreign and move to reject it .  sometimes for reasons we do not understand , these immune reactions in the body get confused , and they attack the body itself .  we have a large number .  lupus was probably the first widely recognized of these diseases .  what has happened is that when the body is attacked , the specific tissues of the body are attacked , they degenerate and become not useful .  there is some evidence that the body develops an ability to recognize its own ; and so the hope is that after this has happened , if you could replace the damaged tissues , that the person gets returned to normal function .  there is enormous potential from use of stem cells , whether they are embryonic or adult , to cure many , many diseases .  the argument today is about whether it should be adult stem cells or whether it should be embryonic stem cells .  we have been working with adult stem cells , mr. speaker , for over 3 decades , and so there have been a fair number of applications to medicine .  you will hear the figure 58 .  we have been working with embryonic stem cells a little over 6 years .  there just has not been time to make those applications , but the fact that there are presently no applications to medicine of embryonic stem cell work does not mean that there will not be and it does not mean that those applications might not be more efficacious than adult stem cell applications .  indeed , if you will talk to the researchers and the experts in this area , they will all tell you to a man and to a woman that the potential for embryonic stem cell application to medicine should be greater than adult stem cell application just because embryonic stem cells , they are called totipotent , they can produce anything and everything that is in the body .  the adult stem cells have already been differentiated , at least to some extent ; and so they are limited in their potential application .  there is another very interesting potential that i do not hear often discussed of embryonic stem cells .  fifty years ago when i was studying and teaching in this area , there was an experiment where the researcher went into a mother black mouse and took a little patch of skin in the uterus from one of her little black babies and then he took that little patch of skin , and he went into the uterus of a white mouse with her white babies , and he cut a little patch of skin out of the white mouse and put in that little patch of black skin and when the white mouse was born with that patch of black skin , it did not reject it .  this gives the promise , mr. speaker , that there may be less rejection of tissues and organs developed from embryonic stem cells than from adult stem cells .  i do not know whether this was a host or donor phenomenon .  both were embryos .  all we know is that when the black skin was sewed onto the little embryonic mouse that there was no rejection .  if you tried to do that after they were born , i do not know if we have determined at precisely what time they lose that ability , it certainly would have been rejected .  the debate that we are going to vote on tomorrow and the debate which was the subject of the special order just before i spoke has to do with whether or not we can effect the needed cures in medicine from adult stem cells or whether we need to move to embryonic stem cells to make this happen .  early in this debate , i had a personal involvement which was kind of an interesting one .  in a former life , i got a doctorate in human physiology .  i taught medical school .  i did medical research .  i went out to nih in 2001 , before the president made his executive order .  it was an information meeting at nih where the scientists working in this field were briefing , they were largely staff members from the hill .  i think i was the only member there .  it occurred to me that you ought to be able to take cells from an early embryo without hurting the embryo , because nature has been doing that forever as far as we know .  that is what happens in identical twinning .  i would like to look at the next chart .  this is two zygotes .  this is not identical twinning .  i just wanted to contrast this with identical twinning .  this is where we have fraternal twins .  they are so-called wombmates .  they could be two boys , two girls , one of each .  they are conceived at the same time .  the mother that ordinarily sloughs one ovum a month this month sloughed two ovums and the sperm , and there are a whole lot of those , millions of them , they found both of them and they fertilized both of them and the uterus was receptive so they both were implanted in the uterus .  this simply shows how they present at birth , depending upon how they implanted .  if they are implanted far apart , they present one way at birth .  if they are implanted very close together , they present another way at birth .  the next chart shows twins from monozygotic twins , that is , from a single zygote , from a single egg .  this presentation looks very much like the dizygotic , that is from two eggs , dizygotic twins that implanted in the uterus very close together .  knowing that in identical twinning , regardless at what stage it occurs and it can occur all the way from the two-cell stage clear up to the inner cell mass and there are several stages between these two , but no matter where it occurs , the embryo has lost half of its cells and both parts go on to produce a perfectly healthy baby .  so i reasoned that it should be possible to take cells from an early embryo without hurting the early embryo and i asked the researchers at nih , was that possible .  they said , yes , of course that is possible .  but with all the embryos out there that could be simply destroyed to get the stem cells , nobody had determined how easy this was to do .  but they said that it certainly was doable .  a little bit later , and this was again before the president gave his executive order , i met the president at an event and i told him very briefly that i had met with nih , and there was this possibility that we could take cells from an early embryo without harming the embryo .  he asked karl rove to follow up on that .  several days later , karl rove called me , mr. speaker , and he said , roscoe , i went to nih and i told them what you told the president , and they told me they can not do that .  i said , karl , there is some problem here .  either they misunderstood your question or something because these are the same people that go into a single cell and take out the nucleus and put another nucleus in the cell .  of course they can go into a relatively large embryo and take out a cell or two .  he went back to talk with them again and called me back and said , they are telling me the same thing .  and so the president came out with his executive order which said that federal funds could be used in research only on the cell lines that had been developed from embryos that had been killed in the process of developing them , that no new cell lines could begin with embryos that had to be killed .  this is only with federal money , of course .  the private sector can do whatever it wishes because there is no law prohibiting the use of embryos .  my concern , mr. speaker , is that we in congress ought to be a player in this , and now we are standing on the sidelines .  mr. speaker , i appreciate my colleague 's coming and entering into this discussion .  before leaving this little experience with nih , i will , mr. speaker , submit for the record a letter which i received today from dr .  battey , who is the spokesman for embryonic stem cell at nih , and what the letter says is , and i will come back to it in a few moments to read a couple parts from it , that what we are proposing to do is certainly possible ; that there is no medical or scientific impediment to doing this .  i just wanted to put to bed the suggestion that nih says what we are doing can not be done in spite of the fact that that is what karl rove thought they said .  in my office just a few months ago , nih kind of sheepishly admitted that there was some misunderstanding in conversation because they had never said that we could not go into an early embryo and take a cell .  what they had said , which is true , which is why i am proposing this research , was that we have never developed a stem cell line from that early an embryo .  ordinarily , we develop a stem cell line from the inner mass cell stage of the embryo .  but the earlier we get the stem cell , the more totipotent it ought to be and the more efficacious it ought to be in treating the diseases .  i have here , mr. speaker , a little diagram which shows the ontogeny , the development of the embryo .  it begins , of course , with the egg that comes from the mother , the oocyte , and then the sperm , and it shows only four or five there .  there will be millions there , i assure my colleagues .  and there is really a miracle that occurs here because as soon as one of them penetrates that egg , there is a big barrier put up so that there is no other candidate .  it would be quite disastrous if two of them penetrated that egg because that would create an embryo which would certainly die .  and then the egg , called a zygote , goes on to develop , and it is two cells .  and it may split here to make two babies , by the way , identical twins .  and then the four-cell and then the eight-cell stage .  it is at the eight-cell stage , and i am jumping a little ahead here , it is at the eight-cell stage in a petri dish .  this is what happens in the body .  if this kind of thing happens , they can fertilize it in a petri dish .  it is at this eight-cell stage in more than 1 , 000 times now in clinics .  it started in england .  it is now in this country .  they have gone into the eight-cell stage and taken out one cell .  they might get two .  and they then do a preimplantation genetic diagnosis on that .  in other words , they determine whether or not there are any genetic defects like down 's disease , for instance , in which case they would not want to implant that embryo .  they do this for the benefit of their baby because one would not want , if they had a choice , to bring a child into the world that was going to have a less than optimum quality of life because they had a genetic defect .  this is not genetic engineering .  genetic engineering is when they change the genetics .  all they are doing here is seeing what genetics are there , and if there is no deficiency in the genetics , they implant the six or seven cells that remain , and more than 1 , 000 times they have had a normal baby .  all of this happened in the intervening years between 2001 and now .  this may have been going on when i talked to the president and when i talked to nih .  i did not know that it was going on , but just a few months ago , this report came out , and now i spent the other day , for a half-hour , probably , talking with two investigators here in virginia who are doing this .  i just want to spend a couple of moments talking about the debate .  the debate is between the use of discarded embryos that the proponents , and that is what the bill is tomorrow , say are going to be thrown away anyhow and why do we not get some good from them by developing stem cell lines from them since they are going to be discarded anyhow ?  the argument on the other side is twofold .  first of all , it is not certain they are going to be discarded because they can be adopted .  what is it ?  operation snowflake where parents can adopt one of these embryos and have them implanted in a mother other than the one from whom the ovum was taken .  so it is not certain that they are going to be discarded .  the other challenge to this is that this is a life .  in the proper environment , this is a human being .  it is an embryo .  put it in the mother 's womb , and it will become a very distinct human being , unlike any other out of the 6.5 billion people in the world .  and there are those who feel that it is immoral .  the president is among them , and he has said this , that it is immoral to take one life so that we might help another .  the good news is , as the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  said , we do not have to do that because we can take cells from an early embryo without hurting the embryo .  by the way , umbilical cord blood stem cells are not an alternative to embryonic stem cells .  just a little quote here .  this is from a scientist at the johns hopkins university school of medicine , one of the best medical schools in the world : `` as a physician-scientist who has done research involving umbilical cord blood stem cells for over 20 years , i am frequently surprised by the thought from nonscientists that cord blood stem cells may provide an alternative to embryonic stem cells for research .  this is simply wrong , '' he says .  do they have a place in treating ?  yes , they do .  but they are not a substitute for embryonic stem cells , and he makes that very plain .  opponents of embryonic stem cell research suggested that 58 diseases have been successfully treated using adult stem cells .  that is true .  i asked nih , is that true that we had 58 treatments from adult stem cells and none from embryonic stem cells ?  they said yes , that is true .  i said , why is that true ?  that is true because we have had more than 3 decades ' experience with adult stem cells , and just a little over 6 years ' experience with embryonic stem cells .  there simply has not been time .  all of the 58 listed , all of them , are represented by organizations that support stem cell research .  so what this says is that all of those physicians that are involved with these 58 applications of adult stem cells , all of them support stem cell research .  the argument on the other side is that it is immoral , that we should not take one life to support another life ; and in making those claims , they state the following : this kills human embryos .  it does .  you may not think that is a problem .  you may not see this little bit of life that holds the miracle of chromosomes and against that will develop the whole unique individual , not like any other .  out of 6.5 billion in the world , you may not see that as human life , but it clearly is .  it kills a human embryo .  you may be okay with that , you may not be , but a great number of people are not okay with that .  they argue that h.r. 810 , which is the bill we will be voting on tomorrow , is an empty promise because the embryonic stem cells have not treated a single human disease , and that is true .  we just gave the reason for it : they have not been worked with long enough to know whether they can treat a disease or not .  h.r. 810 does not have 400 , 000 discarded embryos to use , that is true ; and the statement is made that if you used these 400 , 000 embryos , you would only get 275 stem cell lines , and that is because only 2.8 percent of them have been donated for research .  that gets you down to 11 , 000 , not 400 , 000 .  only 65 percent of those will survive the thawing .  they are frozen .  this is not an event that is not traumatic .  it is very traumatic to the embryos .  a third of them do not survive the freezing and rethawing .  twenty-five percent of those that are still alive after they thaw , only 25 percent will go on through this development stage , through the blastula , gastrula and so forth , so they can be implanted .  then , even if it has gone that far , in one trial only one out of 18 attempts produced a stem cell line , and in another trial only three out of 40 produced a stem cell line .  so that now gets you down to about 275 .  yes , we have not developed perfection yet in these techniques ; but 275 stem cell lines is more than 10 times more than all the stem cell lines we have now , which , by the way , i think are almost all in this country contaminated with mouse feeder cells .  i see that we have been joined by my colleague from nebraska .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman very much .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman .  i have here a very recent report , `` alternative sources of human pluripotent stem cells , '' a white paper by the president 's council on bioethics , and the next chart shows page 25 from this .  the highlighted part says : `` it may be some time before stem cells can be reliably derived from single cells , '' the process we have been talking about , `` extracted from early embryos and in ways that do no harm to the embryo , '' thus biopsy .  `` but the initial success of the verlinsky group 's efforts at least reaches the possibility that embryonic stem cells could be derived from single blastomas removed from early human embryos without apparently harming them. '' then there is an asterisk , and if you go to the bottom of the page it says : `` a similar idea was proposed by representative roscoe bartlett of maryland as far back as 2001 before the president gave his executive order. '' there are four potential sources listed here .  this source is number two .  they do a very good job of discussing this in the body of the text .  they talk about parents going for pre-implantation genetic diagnosis .  they talk about the possibility that you could develop from the cell or cells taken a repair kit .  this is a fascinating potential .  this is why we are collecting and freezing umbilical cord blood , because we hope that through the life of that person , there might be some opportunity to use stem cells .  they are not embryonic , they have limited application , but maybe , just maybe , we could produce something that would help that person later on with a disease .  but in this case , if they did preimplantation genetic diagnosis and if they developed a repair kit from that , then all that we would ask for is that a few surplus cells from the repair kit could be made available for a new stem cell line .  but that is not even what our research , our paper , our bill asks for .  what our bill asks for is simply federal money to do research on animals , on nonhuman primates , that is , the great apes , which genetically are remarkably similar to humans , if it works there , it probably would work in humans , to determine the efficacy and the safeness of doing this .  unfortunately , if all that you read was their recommendations , you would be disappointed , because they never therein mention that the parents have made an ethical decision to make sure they do not have a baby with a genetic defect , the parents who made a decision to establish a repair kit so that their baby at any time during their life could have available compatible tissue to fix a medical problem .  they simply state in their recommendation section that they consider it unethical to go to an embryo and take a cell out of it just to establish a stem cell lot .  it must be that a different person wrote the recommendations at the end as compared to the person or persons that wrote the text in the front , because they certainly should have mentioned the parents ' decision to develop a repair kit , the parents ' decision to make sure that their baby did not have a defect .  these are decisions that parents make , i think , ethically to the benefit of their baby and for all that we would hope in the future .  and , again , our bill deals only with animal experimentation to determine the efficacy and the reliability of doing this .  the next chart shows another development chart , and i would just like to reemphasize : now , imagine this is not in the mother ; this is an infant dibulum , in the ovary and the fallopian tube here .  imagine that this is in a petri dish and not in the mother , and we fertilized the egg , and it has now developed to the eight-cell stage , and we can take a cell from that stage and do a preimplantation genetic diagnosis .  maybe , as the authors of the white paper said , you could develop a stem cell line from that .  we do not know .  they simply have not tried .  it has been too easy to take and kill embryos to get stem cell lines from them .  there is one other ethical argument that maybe is a problem , mr. speaker .  they address this in the president 's white paper .  they do not think it is a problem .  when you read that white paper you will see that they are bending over backwards to satisfy all of the concerns that even the most concerned prolife person could have .  they do not believe that you could develop an embryo from a single cell .  but if we waited a little later , and i have asked the researchers , the medical people who are doing this preimplantation and genetic diagnosis , if they could wait until the inner cell mass stage , if they could wait until the inner cell mass stage to take the cell .  now we avoid even that potential ethical argument , because we already have a differentiation that has occurred .  there are now two kinds of cells in what we call the embryo .  there is the inner cell mass , which will become the baby ; and then there is the rest of the trophoblast which will become the decidua .  the decidua is the amnion and chorion .  now , you can not have a baby without amnion and chorion ; it can not grow .  so if you take cells only from the inner cell mass , they could never become an embryo because these cells have lost all of their ability to produce the decidua , but they retain all of the ability to produce the cells of the body , the great variety of cells in the body .  i am prolife .  i have an impeccable , 100 percent prolife voting record .  i would not be here on the floor today talking about a possible solution to this debate if i did not think that this was perfectly ethical and probably perfectly doable .  i hope , mr. speaker , that a number of my colleagues will sign on to our bill .  we are going to hold this until about noon tomorrow , because we would like to get as many prolife signers as possible .  if the other bill reaches the president 's desk , no matter what he decides , some people are not going to be happy .  if he vetoes the bill , as he has said he would , then all of those americans , and i believe it is a majority , as there will be a majority tomorrow that vote for h.r. 810 , will wonder why it is not okay to take these embryos that hardly look like a baby , just eight cells , to take these embryos , and they are going to be discarded anyhow .  and given the two arguments , they may not be discarded , they may be adopted , and at the end of the day , you are taking a life .  if you think it is okay to take one life to help another , that is okay , but a lot of people do not think that is okay .  on the other hand , if he lets it become law , then he is going to offend all of those prolife people who really see this as life .  what i hope , mr. speaker , is that my bill can be on the president 's desk when he is faced with the unhappy choice that he will have with this bill , so that he can now say , gee , i have a bill which supports what i want , and that is embryonic stem cell research without harming an embryo .  we are not ready yet to work with humans .  this bill addresses only animal experimentation .  but as we saw earlier , mr. speaker , from this chart that we had from that page of the white paper , let me put that back up because i think it makes the point , it may be some time .  that is why we have researchers and that is why we have money from nih , because it may be some time before stem cell lots can be reliably derived from single cells .  they believe that it is possible to do that .  it may take some time , taken from early embryos in ways that do not harm the embryo .  as we have pointed out , they will be taken to benefit the embryo , to do preimplantation genetic diagnosis and to develop a repair kit for the embryo .  but the initial success of the verlinsky group 's efforts at least raises the future possibility that pluripotent stem cells could be derived from single-blast embryos removed from early human embryos without apparently harming them .  indeed , if it is taken for preimplantation genetic diagnosis and to establish a repair kit , not only are they not harmed , they are benefited by it .  mr. speaker , i know that all america will be watching this debate ; they just voted $ 3 billion in alaska to pursue this .  i believe we can pursue all of the potential miracles that could come from embryonic stem cell research and applications to medicine without harming embryos , and i urge an early vote and adoption of this bill .  mr. speaker , i submit the following for the record : and human services , washington , dc , may 23 , 2005 .  dear mr .  bartlett : i am pleased that drs .  allen spiegel and story landis were able to meet with you , mr. otis and mr. aitken during your visit to the national institutes of health ( nih ) last month to discuss ways to derive human embryonic stem cells ( hescs ) .  drs .  spiegel and landis were serving as acting co-chairs of the nih stem cell task force during my leave of absence from this position .  earlier this month , i returned to chair the task force .  nih shares your enthusiasm on the therapeutic potentials of hesc research and thank you for your continued support of this field .  drs .  spiegel and landis briefed me about your april 26th meeting .  i am also aware that you have had previous meetings with nih officials , including myself , lana skirboll and richard tasca , on this topic .  you propose the possibility of using a cell ( or two ) removed from the 8-cell stage human embryo undergoing pre implantation genetic diagnosis ( pgd ) to : 1 ) create a `` personal repair kit '' made up of cells removed from the embryo and stored for future use ; and 2 ) for deriving human embryonic stem cell lines .  you suggested that creating hesc lines in this manner would avoid ethical questions surrounding the fate of a human embryo .  live births resulting from embryos which undergo pgd and are subsequently implanted seem to suggest that this procedure does not harm the embryo , however , there are some reports that a percentage of embryos do not survive this procedure .  in addition , long-term studies would be needed to determine whether this procedure produces subtle or later-developing injury to children born following pgd .  also , it is not known if the single cell removed from the 8-cell stage human embryo has the capacity to become an embryo if cultured in the appropriate environment .  nih is not aware of any published scientific data that has confirmed the establishment of hesc lines from a single cell removed from an 8-cell stage embryo .  we are aware of the published research of dr .  yury verlinsky in the reproductive genetics institute in chicago that showed that a hesc line can be derived by culturing a human morula-staged embryo ( reproductive biomedicine online , 2004 vo .  9 , no.6 , 623-629 , verlinsky , strelchenko , et al ) .  it is also worth noting , however , that in these experiments , the entire morula was plated and used to derive the hesc lines .  the human morula is generally composed of 10-30 cells and is the stage that immediately precedes the formation of the blastocyst .  at the april 26th meeting , nih agreed that such experiments might be pursued in animals , including non-human primates .  that is , animal experiments could be conducted to determine whether it is possible to derive hescs from a single cell of the 8-cell or morula stage embryo .  to date , to the best of our knowledge no such derivations have been successful .  nih also does not know whether these experiments have been tried and failed in animals and/or humans and , therefore , have not been reported in the literature .  nih agreed to explore whether there have been any attempts to use single cells from the 8-cell or morula stage of an animal embryo to start embryonic stem cell lines by consulting with scientists that are currently conducting embryo research .  from these discussions , these scientists believe it is worth attempting experiments using a single cell from an early stage embryo or cells from a morula of a non-human primate to establish an embryonic stem cell line .  of note , a recent 2003 paper from canada shows that when single human blastomeres are cultured from early cleavage stage embryos , before the morula stage , that there is an increased incidence of chromosomal abnormalities .  even with hescs derived from the inner cell mass of the human blastocyst , the odds of starting a hesc line from a single cell are long , perhaps one in 20 tries .  thus , the odds of being able to start with a single cell from an 8-celled or morula staged embryo are equally challenging .  this would make it difficult to accomplish the goal of establishing `` repair kits '' and hesc lines from any single pgd embryo .  ( fertil steril , 2003 june , 79 ( 6 ) : 1304-11 , bielanska , et al ) .  it is possible , however , that improvements in technologies for deriving and culturing hescs may improve these odds .  nih concludes that the possibility of establishing a stem cell line from an 8-cell or morula stage embryo can only be determined with additional research .  nih would welcome receiving an investigator-initiated grant application on this topic using animal embryos .  the human embryo research ban would preclude the use of funds appropriated under the labor/hhs appropriations act for pursuing this research with human embryos .  as with all grant applications , the proposal must be deemed meritorious for funding by peer review and then will be awarded research funds if sufficient funds are available .  it also bears keeping in mind that it may take years to determine the answer .  at the april 26th meeting , you had mentioned that twins can develop when the inner cell mass splits in the blastocyst and forms two embryos enclosed in a common trophoblast .  you asked if cells from the inner cell mass could be safely removed without harming the embryo .  in animal studies , it has been shown that the blastocyst can be pierced to remove cells of the inner cell mass and the embryo appears to retain its original form but it is not known whether the embryo will result the birth of a healthy baby .  since this experiment in human embryos at either the morula or the blastocyst stage would require evaluations of not only normal birth but also unknown longterm risks to the person even into adulthood , it would have to be considered a very high risk and ethically questionable endeavor .  because of the risk of harm , this research would also be ineligible for federal funding .  you had also asked nih about the latest stage in development that an embryo can be artificially implanted into the womb .  we know that infertility clinics transfer embryos at the blastocyst stage ( approximately day 5 in human embryo development ) as well as at earlier stages .  finally , i am providing an additional resource that was discussed at the april meeting .  i have enclosed a copy of a recently released white paper developed by the president 's council on bioethics ( pcb ) on alternative sources of human pluripotent stern cells .  in this white paper , the pcb raised many ethical , scientific and practical concerns about alternate sources for deriving human pluripotent stem cells without harming the embryo .  your proposal is specifically discussed in this report .  i hope this information is helpful .  sincerely , james f. battey , jr. , enclosure .  madam speaker , there have been a number of articles in the recent press relative to stem cell research , with particular reference to embryonic stem cell research .  i thought it might be well in starting this little discussion to take a look at what we mean by stem cells .  i have here a chart which shows in very abbreviated form the development of an early embryo .  it starts out with the zygote , which is the fertilized egg ; and then it skips a couple of stages of development , and it goes through the blastocyst , and then it goes to the gastrula .  by the time the embryo gets to the gastrula stage , the cells have already differentiated to the place that we have three different kinds of somatic stem cells .  this is the ectoderm , and the mesoderm , and the endoderm , and then those very specialized cells , which in the female will be the germ cells in the ovary , the ova , and in the male will be the millions and millions of sperm that are in the gonads of the male .  if we look back , madam speaker , at these stem cells that are present here in the gastrula , where we have these three , as we call germ layers , we see the ectoderm can further differentiate into skin and nervous system and some of the pigment cells in our body ; and then the mesoderm , the middle layer , that differentiates into what is most of us by mass and weight , cardiac muscle , our big skeletal muscles , the bone , the smooth muscle , all of our blood , and the blood is an organ , it happens to be a liquid organ that is dispersed through the body ; and then the endoderm .  this is much more limited in volume and in variety , but still very important .  the pancreatic cells , the thyroid cells , the lining of the gut , the lining of the lung and so forth .  it might be worth just a moment , madam speaker , to take a look at our next chart , which kind of puts this in context .  we started out with the zygote , which is the fertilized egg here , and we ended up with the inner cell mass with these three germ layers .  what we show here are all the stages that were omitted in that first chart .  this is one-half , as the little diagram here in the upper left shows , of the reproductive tract of a female .  it shows the ovary on one side and the fallopian tube , with the funnel-like opening here called the infundibulum .  then it shows the fallopian tube on down to the uterus itself .  what it shows , madam speaker , is that fertilization takes place well up in the fallopian tube , and that begins day one .  and then as the egg slowly moves down the tube , it splits first into two cells , then four cells , and then eight cells , and then the larger variety of cells , and finally where you have the inner cell mass and then to the gastrula .  there are two kinds of stem cells , adult stem cells , and those are derivatives of the cells that we showed in the previous chart .  for instance , in the humans we have adult stem cells in our bone marrow .  these are cells which are differentiated to the point that they will produce a limited variety of cells , but still undifferentiated to an extent because these stem cells in the bone marrow can produce red blood cells and polymorphonuclear leukocytes , part of the white blood cells , and the thrombocytes , those are the cells , the platelets as we call them , that are associated with clotting .  and there are a number of adult stem cells similar to that that still retain some of the capability for producing more than just one kind of cell .  we have been working with adult stem cells medically now for more than 3 decades , and there have been a number of medical applications , treatment of humans that have been made with adult stem cells .  but just because they are what they are , madam speaker , a great number of people believe that there should be more potential from the embryonic stem cells simply because they can produce any and all of the tissues of the body .  since we have been working with embryonic stem cells for now just a little over 6 years , we have not had the opportunities for medical applications we have had in adult stem cells , but this does not dim the hopes of the scientific community and the medical community that ultimately there may be more and better applications of embryonic stem cells to treatment of diseases than adult stem cells , simply because of what they are , puripotent cells retaining the ability to produce any and all of the tissues of the body .  it is possible , madam speaker , that this characteristic , which makes them so potentially attractive and exciting , may be uncontrollable .  they may be so bent on dividing that we can not control their division .  they may end up producing tumors and cancer-like growths in the organism in which you put them .  but if that can be controlled , the medical community and the researchers associated with it believe there is potential for enormous applications to medicine of embryonic stem cell research .  we have now had 58 applications of adult stem cells in helping to treat some of the diseases .  what are the diseases that could be treated with stem cells ?  ordinarily , one thinks that the greatest potential for the use of stem cells would result from use in diseases from tissue deficiency rather than diseases that result from some organism , although if there is an infection in the body and a tissue is damaged , there is the hope that it might be replaced with stem cell application .  there are a number of diseases that the scientific community and the general public believe might be amenable to treatment with stem cells , particularly embryonic stem cells .  diabetes is one of those .  this is the most costly disease in our country .  it costs more to treat the diabetics in our country than any other single disease .  i have these come through my office .  particularly heartrending are the little children that come there , 5 and 6 years old some of them , such brittle juvenile diabetics that they have an implanted pump and they have to prick their finger or some part of their body a number of times a day to monitor the glucose level so that just the right amount of insulin can be injected to control this .  this insulin is produced by cells called island of langerhan cells .  dr .  langerhan was the german scientist that described them .  and they look like little eyelets because they are simply distributed through the tissue of the pancreas .  the pancreas is a very large gland at the very beginning of the small intestine that secretes all of the different kinds of digestive enzymes so that fats , carbohydrates , and proteins all are digested using the enzymes secreted by the pancreas .  i have no idea why nature placed the islets of langerhans in the pancreas .  they could be placed anywhere .  with these stem cell applications if we could create islet tissue , they could be placed in the person .  it could be placed in the groin , under their arm , under the skin , anywhere .  it does not have to be in the pancreas .  this islet tissue could then make insulin which would cure diabetes .  when you give insulin to the diabetic , it delays progression of the disease , but it does not cure it .  a person with juvenile diabetes faces the prospect that they probably will have a shortened life , problems with their vision as the vascular bed in the back of the eye breaks down , and they may have problems with circulation in their extremities , particularly in the feet where there is some difficulty getting blood back uphill to the heart .  as many people in this country know through relatives and friends , this results frequently in sores that do not heal and results in gangrene , so the toes or a foot may need to be taken off .  diabetes is one of the diseases that is very attractive as a potential for use of stem cells , because if we could just produce islet tissue , we could cure diabetes , the most expensive disease that we have .  another disease is multiple sclerosis , and if impaired cells could be replaced through stem cell therapy , then the person could walk again .  lou gehrig 's disease , i remember my grandmother was tripping and falling , and they did not know why .  it took them quite awhile back , this was a number of years ago , to determine she had lou gehrig 's disease .  i remember as a teenager going to her bedside .  she was maintained in the home .  she slowly deteriorated , losing first one muscle function and then another .  finally , at the end , the only muscle function she had remaining was the ability to blink her eyes .  it was once for yes and two for no , as i remember .  she could not swallow and had indicated she did not want to be force fed and ultimately she died from starvation with this disease .  well , anybody who has a friend or a relative that has gone through that kind of experience has to be enthusiastic about the potential for stem cell therapy .  this was a number of years ago , but if it were tomorrow or the day after tomorrow figuratively , maybe there could be stem cell therapy for my grandmother , and she would not have to have died at the relatively young age she died at .  alzheimer 's disease is another one .  president reagan died from alzheimer 's disease .  victims do not even recognize their favorite loved ones , have no memory and may wander outside and wander off .  there is a whole category of autoimmune diseases .  i have a paper which lists 63 of the autoimmune diseases .  by that , i mean a disease where the body gets confused as to what is the body and what is not the body .  when we are developing as embryos in our mother 's womb , there are certain cells in our circulatory system called t-cells located in the lymphatic tissue , and the t-cells are imprinted with who we are because once we get out of the mother 's womb , we are going to be in a hostile environment , exposed to bacteria and viruses , and so it is important that the body knows what it is so the defense mechanisms in the body can be marshaled to eject the intruder .  these t-cells identify what is you and what is not you , and they alert some of the specialized cells in our white blood cell system so they are attracted to the site , and they eject , they may consume , they eject the intruder .  there are 63 distinct autoimmune diseases .  for some reason , the body gets confused and the autoimmune system gets confused and starts attacking your joints , for instance .  we know that disease as arthritis .  i remember my first real introduction to this big list of autoimmune diseases was a secretary i had , a very vibrant young lady whose life was really , really changed because she had lupus .  there are many americans who have family or friends who have lupus , and lupus was one of the first autoimmune diseases that was discovered .  there is a controversy going on over the potential for embryonic stem cell medical applications and adult stem cell medical applications .  we have been working for more than 3 decades with adult stem cells , and our very able medical scientific community has been able to develop a number of applications that can cure or at least lessen the severity of disease using adult stem cells .  since we have been working with embryonic stem cells for only a brief period of time , we do not have any direct applications to medicine of embryonic stem cell therapy , but that does not dim the enthusiasm of the medical community because they believe that the potential there ought to be greater .  but the real problem here is that up until this time the only way that we can get embryonic stem cells is to destroy the embryo .  the scientists go into the inner cell mass stage .  that is this stage here , day five .  of course , what we are doing now in the laboratory is not done in the uterus .  all of this is done in a petri dish .  the in vitro is in glass .  in vivo means life .  the embryo is destroyed at the inner cell mass stage , and cells are taken to produce a stem cell line .  about 4 years ago , this produced a real dilemma for the president who , like all of us , has family and friends who have one or more of these diseases that could be potentially ameliorated or cured by embryonic stem cell application .  yet the president knew the only way we were presently getting embryonic stem cell lines was by destroying embryos .  he , as i am , is a strong pro-life advocate and the president had a problem with taking one life because that embryo produced in the laboratory in surplus and in vitro fertilization had the potential when implanted in a receptive mother to become a baby and the president 's problem was that he had a moral problem with taking one life with the hope of helping another .  while the president was wrestling with this problem and what to do about it , there was a briefing at the national institutes of health for members of the congress and for their staff .  i went out there to that briefing .  as the next chart shows , when we were talking about the potential for embryonic stem cell lines , i remembered my training of more than 50 years ago when i got my doctorate at the university of maryland and had a course in advanced embryology and then went on to teach medical school for 4 years and postgraduate medicine doing basic research at the national institutes of health .  i remembered what everybody knows , because they had the course in advanced embryology it was in my mind , that whenever we have identical twins what has really happened is that half of the cells have been taken from the early embryo .  the half that is taken becomes a perfectly normal baby , and the half that is left becomes a perfectly normal baby .  madam speaker , one is a clone .  when one thinks about cloning , remember that mother nature or god , to whomever you want to subscribe it , has been cloning for a very long time .  now these early embryos can split either at the two-cell stage or at the inner cell mass stage or anywhere in between , presumably .  we know at least at those two extremes because we can tell by how they present at birth when they split .  if they share an amnion , they split at the two cell stage .  if they have separate amnions , they probably split at the inner cell mass stage .  so knowing that half of the cells could be taken away from an early embryo without harming the embryo , unless you think identical twins are somehow deficient , and i have talked with a number of identical twins , and i have not talked with any of them who thought they were less a person or deficient because half of the cells were taken away to produce the other identical twin .  it occurred to me that you ought to be able to take cells from an early embryo without hurting the embryo to develop a stem cell line from that early embryo .  i mentioned this to the researchers at nih , and they said , yes , that is theoretically possible to do that .  just after that , i was at an event and the president was there and when i went through the line , i mentioned my visit at nih and the response that they had given to my question .  a few days later , i had a call from carl rove and the president had turned the pursuit of this suggestion over to carl rove .  carl told me that he talked to the people at nih , and they tell me what you have suggested is not possible .  carl , i said either they are funning you or they misunderstand you , because these are the same people that can take a single cell and take the nucleus out of that cell and put another nucleus in it .  that is what they did with dolly the sheep and the large number of clones that have been produced since then .  i said , of course , if they can take the nucleus out of a cell and put another nucleus in it , they can certainly take a cell or two out of what is a relatively big embryo .  so he went back and asked them again and then called back and said they are still telling me they can not do that .  so a few days later , the president came out with his executive order .  madam speaker , you may remember this was kind of a decision like solomon might have made .  obviously , from the potential efficacy of embryonic stem cell research and medical applications , it is very desirable that we do that .  on the other hand , if the only way to get embryonic stem cells is by destroying an embryo , then you are left with the quandary of , is it really acceptable to destroy one life with the hope that you are going to help another ?  so the president came to a decision that i think represented great wisdom .  he recognized that a number of embryos had already been killed , destroyed to establish stem cell lines , and since you can not turn back the hands of time to change that , these embryos were gone , the stem cell lines were there , and so the president , recognizing the potential for embryonic stem cell research , and being concerned that you should not take one life with the hope of helping another , wisely i think , said we could spend federal dollars on any exploration we chose with the existing stem cells lines , and he thought there were about 60 .  there have never been 60 , but he was told there were something like 60 stem cell lines , and federal dollars could be used for research on those lines , but no federal dollars could be used for developing or destroying any additional embryos for stem cell lines .  this was about 4 years ago , and as we knew , the scientific community knew , as i knew because of my background , these stem cell lines would eventually run out .  stem cell lines , like people , age .  for reasons that we may not understand , they do not last forever .  those stem cell lines , madam speaker , are running out .  we now have , i think the accepted figure is 22 stem cell lines left , and all of these are contaminated with mouse feeder cells .  this is the result of a technique which is used to facilitate the replication of these cells in the tissue culture , and they are now all contaminated with mouse feeder cells so that although they are perfectly good for research and a lot of research is being done , they are not good for medical application because you would not want to put the cells contaminated with mouse feeder cells in a human .  so what now ?  one of the potential solutions to this problem is included in h.r. 810 , the castle-degette bill ; and the argument made in this bill is that there are about 400 , 000 surplus embryos out there from in vitro fertilization .  you see , to make sure that the doctor is going to have a good embryo or two or three to implant in a mother , because they do not all take , he will produce more embryos than he will probably need .  then he will look at them under the microscope and pick the strongest looking of those embryos and may put two or three or so in the mother .  one of our members , the rohrabachers , are now the proud parents of triplets from in vitro fertilization .  all of them grew and so they are now the proud parents of these very happy and healthy little babies .  since there are 400 , 000 surplus embryos out there that are frozen , the argument is , and this is the argument of the bill , that since these embryos , at least many of these embryos , realistically most of these embryos will ultimately be discarded , they will not stay frozen for 49 years there , they will not last forever , and by and by they will be discarded , and so the argument is , why should medicine not benefit from cells , from embryos that are going to be discarded anyhow ?  that to many people is a compelling argument .  it was a compelling argument to a majority of people in the house , and now they are considering this bill in the senate .  but to those in the pro-life community , there is another way of looking at these embryos .  i am at the microscope and there is an embryo under the microscope there .  that embryo could become a snowflake baby .  more than 100 times parents who do not have an ovum , can not get pregnant any other way , have adopted these surplus embryos and we have more than 100 of what we call snowflake babies .  the embryo that i am looking at under the microscope might be adopted and that could be any one of the 400 , 000 embryos , and it might be the next albert einstein .  how could i destroy an embryo that might be adopted and might be the next albert einstein ?  so this is the argument on the other side , which is why the great debate over h.r. 810 .  as a result of a series of discussions with the white house and with a number of the interested groups , we have developed a bill which is called h.r. 3144 , the respect for life pluripotent stem cell act of 2005 .  madam speaker , i will make this short bill a part of the record .  be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled , & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; section 1. short title. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; this act may be cited as the `` respect for life pluripotent stem cell act of 2005 '' . & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; sec .  2. findings. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; the congress finds as follows : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; ( 1 ) stem cells may be derived from various sources , including adult tissue , umbilical cord blood , and living human embryos .  the use of cells from embryos has drawn great interest in the scientific community but also raises very serious ethical concerns for many americans , because as practiced today it requires the destruction of human embryos to obtain their cells .  ( 2 ) the president 's council on bioethics in its may 2005 white paper : `` alternative sources of pluripotent stem cells , '' describes several potential methods to derive stem cells like those now derived through the destruction of embryos , but which would not involve doing harm to embryos .  some methods propose to involve embryos in ways that do not harm them , while others propose to reprogram adult cells to produce cells with the capabilities of embryonic stem cells without producing or involving embryos at all. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; ( 3 ) such proposals should be thoroughly tested in animal models before being applied to humans , to establish that they do not involve creating or harming human embryos. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; ( 4 ) several scientific reports also suggest that some subclasses of adult stem cells ( derived from postnatal tissues , umbilical cord blood and placenta ) show a flexibility comparable to that of stem cells now derived through the destruction of embryos. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; ( 5 ) american scientists should be encouraged to pursue all ethical avenues of stem cell research and to explore morally uncontroversial alternatives to research requiring the destruction of human embryos. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; sec .  3. derivation of stem cells without harming embryos ; research through national institutes of health. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; part b of title iv of the public health service act ( 42 u.s.c 284 ) is amended by adding at the end the following : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; '' sec .  409j. basic and applied research on derivation and use of pluripotent stem cells without harming embryos. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( a ) definitions. -- in this section , the following definitions apply : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 1 ) human embryo. -- the term `human embryo ' includes any organism , not protected as a human subject under 45 cfr 46 as of the date of the enactment of the respect for life pluripotent stem cell act of 2005 , that is derived by fertilization , parthenogenesis , cloning , or any other means from one or more human gametes or human diploid cells. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 2 ) pluripotent stem cell. -- the term `pluripotent stem cell ' means a cell that can in principle be differentiated to produce all or almost all the cell types of the human body , and therefore has the same functional capacity as an embryonic stem cell , regardless of whether it has the same origin. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( b ) in general. -- with respect to producing stem cell lines for important biomedical research , the director of nih shall , through the appropriate national research institutes , provide for the conduct and support of basic and applied research in isolating , deriving and using pluripotent stem cells without creating or harming human embryos .  such research may include -- & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 1 ) research in animals to develop and test techniques for deriving cells from embryos without doing harm to those embryos ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 2 ) research to develop and test techniques for producing human pluripotent stem cells without creating or making use of embryos ; and & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 3 ) research to isolate , develop and test pluripotent stem cells from postnatal tissues , umbilical cord blood , and placenta. & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( c ) prohibitions regarding harm to human embryos. -- research under subsection ( b ) may not include any research that -- & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 1 ) involves the use of human embryos ; or & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 2 ) involves the use of stem cells not otherwise eligible for funding by the national institutes of health ; or & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 3 ) involves the use of any stem cell to create or to attempt to create a human embryo , or & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; `` ( 4 ) poses a significant risk of creating a human embryo by any means .  `` ( d ) authorization of appropriations. -- for the purpose of carrying out this section , there are authorized to be appropriated $ 15 , 000 , 000 in fiscal year 2006 , and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2007 through 2010 .  such authorization is in addition to other authorizations of appropriations that are available for such purpose. '' . & lt ; p & gt ; madam speaker , the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  has joined us .  i would like to yield to him before i go through the history of how we got to this bill and the people we talked to and exactly what is in the bill .  i thank the gentleman for joining us .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , i want to thank my colleague very much for his comments .  he is very generous .  i did not come to the congress , and that was 13 years ago , until i was 66 years old ; and i am very fortunate to have some prior life experiences that have permitted me to understand some opportunities here in the congress that might not have been so obvious to others who did not have this background .  after the president came down with his executive order , i continued to meet with the folks at nih , and i subsequently learned , by the way , i need to come back to that problem with karl rove and his discussion with the nih people , and this was a typical example of failed communications .  and so often we think that we are carrying on a dialogue and we are really carrying on simultaneous monologues .  however it happened , what the nih people were telling karl rove was that they were not sure that they could make a stem cell line from an embryo that early .  that is true .  that is why in our bill we advocate animal model research rather than beginning with humans .  but there is no reason we should not be able to do that .  now , as a matter of fact , a russian scientist working in this country , verlinsky , says he has , in fact , done that .  i have met a number of times with people from nih .  on july 20 of last year , for instance , we had an extended meeting in my office with representatives from nih , with representatives from health and human services , and with representatives from the white house .  and then , madam speaker , a very interesting thing happened while we were having this series of meetings with the nih and hhs and the white house and with the outside groups .  there appeared in the literature a paper , a very interesting paper , on preimplantation genetic diagnosis .  and what these medical people were doing , and this was in england , the first paper came from a clinic in england , what they were doing was going into the eight-cell stage and taking a cell or two out to do a preimplantation genetic diagnosis to see if the baby would have a genetic defect .  and if there was no genetic defect , they implanted the remaining seven cells , sometimes six cells .  and more than 600 times that went on to produce a perfectly normal baby .  that is now being done in this country just outside washington , in virginia .  a few weeks ago i spent probably a half hour or more on the phone with two of the medical scientists there who were involved in this research .  there is one potential ethical problem here , although the president 's council on bioethics thinks it is not a problem .  i would like to avoid , madam speaker , even the possibility of a problem .  and that problem is that the cell that we take from that embryo might , under the right circumstances , become an embryo itself .  the members of the president 's , and i have the white paper here i am going to refer to in just a moment , council on bioethics think that that is not feasible .  but , madam speaker , if we were to wait just a little later to take the cell to the inner cell mass , and i probably ought to put that chart of the uterus back up here so that i can point to what i am referring to here , in the laboratory they are going at the eight-cell stage and taking a cell or two out and doing a preimplantation genetic diagnosis .  if there is no genetic defect , they implant the remaining cells , and more than 1 , 000 times worldwide now , they have had a normal baby born .  the argument is that that cell they take out under the right circumstances is pluripotent , totipotent at that stage probably , and could produce another embryo .  to avoid that , if we just wait until the inner cell mass stage , which is the stage from which the embryonic stem cell lines are now developed when they destroy the embryo , there is no reason they can not go into this inner cell mass and through the trophoblast and they could take out several cells then because there are a lot of cells there .  by that time we already have some differentiation .  the cells in the inner cell mass are going to produce the baby .  the three germ layers that we talked about at the very beginning and the cells in the trophoblast are going to produce the decidua .  the decidua is the amnion and chorion , the tissues that support the baby , and we can see those starting to develop down here in day 8 and 9 when the embryo has attached itself to the wall of the uterus and the uterus grows and produces some tissues and there is a growth of this decidua here and we have the placenta , these big opposing vascular bags through which food and oxygen and co 2 and hormones and so forth are exchanged between the baby and the mother .  by the way , madam speaker , this is a pretty hazardous journey ; and we do not know the exact percentage , but maybe less than half of all of the ova here that get fertilized actually implant in the uterus .  as a matter of fact , one of the techniques for preventing conception is an iud .  they simply place a foreign object here in the uterus , and the uterus reacts to the presence of that foreign by not permitting the fertilized egg , the embryo , to implant there .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman very much for that contribution .  while we are carrying on these discussions with the white house and nih and hhs and with the outside groups , the president 's council on bioethics submits a white paper ; and in this white paper they go over four potential techniques that might produce pluripotent stem cells , which is another way of saying the equivalent of embryonic stem cells , without destroying or harming an embryo .  and what our bill does , madam speaker , is simply ask nih to please explore these potentials , first of all , in animal models ; and the bill gives them $ 15 million to begin this exploration .  i just wanted to spend just a moment talking about the four things that are in here because it may be of interest to a number of people .  the first is called pluripotent stem cells derived from organismically dead embryos .  well , this says that all these embryos i had mentioned earlier , all these embryos will not live .  and when an embryo is moribund , it is not going to divide anymore , then it is the equivalent of a brain dead person and there should be no problem taking cells from it like they would take organs from a brain dead person .  one might have a little question about the vitality of the cell they take from that embryo , but at least ethically if the embryo is dead or moribund , the equivalent of a brain dead person , they could take an embryo from it .  the second procedure , and the next chart shows a little clip from that , is one in which , down at the bottom here , it says `` a similar idea was proposed by representative roscoe bartlett. '' this was my recommendation in 2001 .  and this simply says they go into an early embryo , as i have mentioned , and take out a cell without hurting the embryo because mother nature or god , whoever people think makes identical twins , has been doing this for a very long time .  our bill simply asks the nih to do this in animal models to make sure that it is safe and efficacious .  a third technique is called pluripotent stem cells derived from biological artifacts .  this is an interesting one .  and what the proposal there is that they take an ovum and they take the nucleus out of the ovum and then they take an altered nucleus out of a somatic cell .  you alter the nucleus so that you have turned off some of the genes , and then you put that nucleus inside the egg .  now , why would you do that ?  because in the cytoplasm of the egg outside the nucleus of the egg , there are some factors which turn on and turn off genes and kind of control what happens inside the nucleus .  so now they have turned off some genes so this thing will divide ; that will never be a baby because they have kind of messed up the genetics .  well , if they can never be a baby , then maybe ethically you can take stem cells from it , and this is something that really needs to be explored .  these several techniques are all open for investigation .  oh , the fourth one of these is pluripotent stem cells by differentiation .  i mentioned the differentiation of cells .  that is when they decide that they are going to be just this or that , and all the cells they produce after that are just that kind of cell .  now , sometimes , you can take a cell and kind of put it in an environment where you have confused it , you have shocked it , you have done something to it , so it forgets what it was supposed to be , and it starts making cells , tissues that it would not ordinarily make in that stage of differentiation .  so what our bill does is to permit the research , particularly on two of these , the nucleus transfer and the taking of cells from the early blastomere .  our bill has received input from the white house , from the conference of catholic bishops , from right the life communities , so there is a broad spectrum of individuals and organizations out there that are supportive of what we are doing .  in the few moments left , madam speaker , i would like to note that there have been a plethora of articles very recently about this , and i would like to submit these for the record .  they are not very long , and i will insert them into the record .  here is national geographic , july 2005 .  stem cells , a big article , very good article on stem cells there .  here is a letter of may of this year from dr .  battey who is the chief spokesman for stem cell research at the national institutes of health who is quite supportive of our bill and what we propose to do , and here is a very interesting op-ed piece written by richard doerflinger who represents the catholic bishops .  by the way , i need to give credit where credit is due .  it was richard doerflinger who made the great suggestion that the first thing you do with that cell you take from the early embryo is to create a repair kit so that all during the life of that person , they will have frozen the ability to produce a new liver if they need it , islets of langerhans , spinal cord cells , whatever they need .  there is a great op-ed piece by richard doerflinger who explains his support for our bill .  he says , representative tuesday , july 12 , associated press , lawmakers wary of backup stem cell bill .  for those who would like to see just the castle-degette bill passed , our bill , and the president , by the way , says that if that other bill gets to his desk , he will veto it .  for those of us who believe that we really ought to research stem cells , we really look forward to a bill which the president can support .  stem cell legislation is at risk , july 9 , washington post .  gop probes nondestructive cell research , washington ap , june 29 .  and then just today , in congressional quarterly , congress considers numerous stem cell bills .  it mentions our bill in the house , and that bill frist is expected to draft a related bill in the senate .  i am very pleased , madam speaker , that my background has permitted me to understand some of the potential here , my experience with my grandmother , with these little diabetic kids , my profound pro-life commitment .  i am very pleased that i was able to propose a potential solution that i think meets the morals and the demands of both sides of this issue .  madam speaker , i ask unanimous consent to insert the following articles : and human services , bethesda , maryland , may 23 , 2005 .  dear mr .  bartlett : i am pleased that drs .  allen spiegel and story landis were able to meet with you , mr. otis and mr. aitken during your visit to the national institutes of health ( nih ) last month to discuss ways to derive human embryonic stem cells ( hescs ) .  drs .  spiegel and landis were serving as acting co-chairs of the nih stem cell task force during my leave of absence from this position .  earlier this month , i returned to chair the task force .  nih shares your enthusiasm on the therapeutic potentials of hesc research and thank you for your continued support of this field .  drs .  spiegel and landis briefed me about your april 26th meeting .  i am also aware that you have had previous meetings with nih officials , including myself , lana skirboll and richard tasca , on this topic .  you propose the possibility of using a cell ( or two ) removed from the 8-cell stage human embryo undergoing preimplantation genetic diagnosis ( pgd ) to : ( 1 ) create a `` personal repair kit '' made up of cells removed from the embryo and stored for future use ; and ( 2 ) for deriving human embryonic stem cell lines .  you suggested that creating hesc lines in this manner would avoid ethical questions surrounding the fate of a human embryo .  live births resulting from embryos which undergo pgd and are subsequently implanted seem to suggest that this procedure does not harm the embryo , however , there are some reports that a percentage of embryos do not survive this procedure .  in addition , long-term studies would be needed to determine whether this procedure produces subtle or later-developing injury to children nih is not aware of any published scientific data that has confirmed the establishment of hesc lines from a single cell removed from an 8-cell stage embryo .  we are aware of the published research of dr .  yury verlinsky in the reproductive genetics institute in chicago that showed that a hesc line can be derived by culturing a human morula-staged embryo ( reproductive biomedicine online , 2004 vo .  9 , no .  6 , 623-629 , verlinsky , strelchenko , et al ) .  it is also worth noting , however , that in these experiments , the entire morula was plated and used to derive the hesc lines .  the human morula is generally composed of 10-30 cells and is the stage that immediately precedes the formation of the blastocyst .  at the april 26th meeting , nih agreed that such experiments might be pursued in animals , including non-human primates .  that is , animal experiments could be conducted to determine whether it is possible to derive hescs from a single cell of the 8-cell or morula stage embryo .  to date , to the best of our knowledge no such derivations have been successful .  nih also does not know whether these experiments have been tried and failed in animals and/or humans and , therefore , have not been reported in the literature .  nih agreed to explore whether there have been any attempts to use single cells from the 8-cell or morula stage of an animal embryo to start embryonic stem cell lines by consulting with scientists that are currently conducting embryo research .  from these discussions , these scientists believe it is worth attempting experiments using a single cell from an early stage embryo or cells from a morula of a non-human primate to establish an embryonic stem cell line .  of note , a recent 2003 paper from canada shows that when single human blastomeres are cultured from early cleavage stage embryos , before the morula stage , that there is an increased incidence of chromosomal abnormalities .  even with hescs derived from the inner cell mass of the human blastocyst , the odds of starting a hesc line from a single cell are long , perhaps one in 20 tries .  thus , the odds of being able to start with a single cell from an 8-celled or morula staged embryo are equally challenging .  this would make it difficult to accomplish the goal of establishing `` repair kits '' and hesc lines from any single pgd embryo .  ( fertil steril , 2003 june , 79 ( 6 ) : 1304-11 , bielanska , et al ) .  it is possible , however , that improvements in technologies for deriving and culturing hescs may improve these odds .  nih concludes that the possibility of establishing a stem cell line from an 8-cell or morula stage embryo can only be determined with additional research .  nih would welcome receiving an investigator-initiated grant application on this topic using animal embryos .  the human embryo research ban would preclude the use of funds appropriated under the labor/hhs appropriations act for pursuing this research with human embryos .  as with all grant applications , the proposal must be deemed meritorious for funding by peer review and then will be awarded research funds if sufficient funds are available .  it also bears keeping in mind that it may take years to determine the answer .  at the april 26th meeting , you had mentioned that twins can develop when the inner cell mass splits in the blastocyst and forms two embryos enclosed in a common trophoblast .  you asked if cells from the inner cell mass could be safely removed without harming the embryo .  in animal studies , it has been shown that the blastocyst can be pierced to remove cells of the inner cell mass and the embryo appears to retain its original form but it is not known whether the embryo will result in the birth of a healthy baby .  since this experiment in human embryos at either the morula or the blastocyst stage would require evaluations of not only normal birth but also unknown long term risks to the person even into adulthood , it would have to be considered a very high risk and ethically questionable endeavor .  because of the risk of harm , this research would also be ineligible for federal funding .  you had also asked nih about the latest stage in development that an embryo can be artificially implanted into the womb .  we know that infertility clinics transfer embryos at the blastocyst stage ( approximately day 5 in human embryo development ) as well as at earlier stages .  finally , i am providing an additional resource that was discussed at the april meeting .  i have enclosed a copy of a recently released white paper developed by the president 's council on bioethics ( pcb ) on alternative sources of human pluripotent stem cells .  in this white paper , the pcb raised many ethical , scientific and practical concerns about alternate sources for deriving human pluripotent stem cells without harming the embryo .  your proposal is specifically discussed in this report .  i hope this information is helpful .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; james f. battey , jr. , m.d. , ph.d. , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; chairman , nih stem cell task force and director , national institute on deafness and other communication disorders. & lt ; /em & gt ; gop probes non-destructive cell research washington ( ap ) . -- embryonic stem cell research that does n't destroy budding human life ?  right now , it 's possible only in theory , or on animals .  but those alternatives to the most promising stem cell science are enough to win the attention of anti-abortion republicans and president bush .  senate majority leader bill frist and other gop lawmakers are considering legislation drawn from a report in may by bush 's council on bioethics , which studied research that might carry medical promise but is in its infancy .  in some cases , the research is ethically objectionable , the panel wrote .  nonetheless , it said four types of studies `` deserve the nation 's careful and serious consideration. '' bush was receptive to funding the theoretical approaches rather than medically more promising research that destroys embryo , three lawmakers who have discussed the subject with him told the associated press .  `` there was a sense around the table that if we could discover a way to extract the stem cells without destroying the embryo , that that was something that nearly everyone could support , '' said representative david dreier , r-calif. , who discussed the option with bush at a white house meeting earlier this month .  `` the president was very enthusiastic about that .  he clearly supported it. '' another possible compromise , being drafted by representative roscoe bartlett , r-md. , a biological engineer , would send $ 15 million to the national institutes of health for stem cell research on animal embryos , according to a draft obtained by the ap .  `` congressman bartlett sought and received technical assistance from the administration to ensure that the bill that he is working on would be consistent with the president 's principles and goals , '' said lisa wright , bartlett 's spokeswoman .  bush has repeatedly said he would veto a bill the house passed last month backing standard embryonic stem cell research and any similar version by the senate , which is expected to turn to the issue in july .  `` we 'll probably consider a number of bills , '' frist told the ap .  senator rick santorum , r-pa. , who also attended the meeting with bush , said he may try to amend one of congress ' must-pass spending bills to provide federal money for specific studies outlined in the bioethics council 's report .  senator gordon smith , r-ore. , said that in his own talk with bush , he found the president `` looking for a way to stay within his ethical boundaries. '' almost two-thirds of americans say they support embryonic stem cell research and a majority of people say they would like to see fewer restrictions on taxpayer funding for those studies , according to recent polling .  the proposal may free senators from a tight spot between bush 's veto threat and public pressure for embryonic stem cell research , which has shown promise in the search for cures for parkinson 's , alzheimer 's and other diseases .  but it also would spend millions of dollars on studies whose value is speculative .  some of the techniques have not even been attempted in animals .  frist , who is a heart and lung transplant surgeon , told the ap at least three of the processes on the bioethics council 's list met his criteria for funding embryonic stem cell research .  `` all of the research you have there stops short of the creation of an embryo for experimental purposes , and short of destruction of an embryo for experimental purposes , '' he said .  `` that is the direction i think we should explore. '' those are the same boundaries set out by bush , who in a 2001 executive order prohibited federal funding of any research using human embryonic stem cells harvested after aug .  9 of that year .  senator tom harkin , d-iowa , a chief supporter of traditional embryonic stem cell research , shrugged at the notion of an alternative .  `` most of these ideas are nothing but theories .  they have n't been tested , '' he said wednesday .  the processes studied by the council could theoretically develop embryonic stem cell lines -- which can develop into any cell in the body -- without harming the embryo .  they would : -- derive stem cells from technically dead embryos .  when embryos frozen during in-vitro fertilization are thawed , some never resume dividing and thus are discarded .  no one knows whether scientists could find healthy stem cells inside an embryo already so damaged that it would n't grow , or coax them to live when transferred out of that embryo .  -- extract stem cells from two-day-old embryos using a non-lethal biopsy technique .  until now , most stem cells have been culled from embryos that contain 100 or so cells .  however , in vitro fertilization clinics frequently extract one cell , called a blastomere , from a younger , eight-celled embryo to perform genetic testing -- to tell , for instance , whether some embryos will have a disease like cystic fibrosis .  this testing does n't destroy the embryo , so women can choose to have only healthy ones implanted .  according to one report , more than 1 , 000 healthy children have been born after blastomere testing .  the questions are whether enough stem cells could be culled from a single blastomere to be worthwhile , and which embryos would be used .  & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; -- develop stem cells derived from specially engineered tissue .  one such technique is called `` altered nuclear transfer , '' essentially cloning in a way that grows only tissue , not an actual embryo .  this process has n't been attempted yet .  -- turning back the clock on older cells so they again become `` pluripotent , '' the scientific term for the ability to turn into any tissue .  scientists already are trying to do this to some degree through `` adult stem cell '' research , such as turning blood-making cells into cells that produce liver or muscle tissues .  it 's not clear whether older cells can be returned to an embryonic state. & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; -- & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; lawmakers wary of backup stem cell bill washington ( ap ) . -- president bush and his conservative senate allies are trying to peel votes from a stem cell bill by offering alternative legislation that would instead fund promising but unproven studies , several senators said tuesday .  `` i 'm all for these alternative sources , ( but ) not as a substitute , not as some way of stopping what we 're about to do , '' said tom harkin , d-iowa , senate sponsor of a bill already passed by the house that would end bush 's 2001 ban on federal funding for new human embryonic stem cell studies .  several scientists testifying tuesday before the labor , health and human services appropriations subcommittee agreed that harkin 's bill , cosponsored by panel chairman arlen specter , r-pa. , should be passed before even their own research receives federal funding .  `` it 's a no-brainer , '' said robert lanza , one of the scientists working on a process by which embryonic stem cells are derived without destroying life .  `` i do not think we should keep the scientific community or the patient community waiting. '' another scientist at the table , william b. hurlbut of stanford university , said vital science that could someday lead to cures of diseases like alzheimer 's and parkinson 's must have the engine of public consensus behind it .  a member of the president 's council on bioethics , hurlbut noted that large sections of the public believe human embryonic stem cell research is immoral because it destroys the embryo , which many , including bush and some congressional conservatives , consider a budding human life .  government , he said , should set `` a coherent moral platform to guide our science. '' but staring down a self-imposed aug .  1 deadline for voting on the legislation , senate negotiators were no closer tuesday to agreeing on a list of bills to debate on the senate floor .  still swirling were talks over a six-bill package of legislation , including the harkin-specter measure , and others that would fund alternative methods or ban certain stem cell and cloning techniques altogether .  specter , a cancer patient also helming the fight over supreme court nominations , said he was growing impatient with the delay and made clear that his bill is the first priority .  `` if we can pass the house bill , specter-harkin , that is the most important bill to be enacted , '' specter said as he gaveled open the labor , health and human services subcommittee hearing .  testifying were james battey , chairman of the national institutes of health stem cell task force , and lanza , who has done research into deriving stem cells from a single animal cell without destroying the embryo .  the house approved the harkin-specter bill , 238-194 , on may 24 .  that is far less than the two-thirds support that would be needed to override a veto bush has threatened , and it was unclear that either house of congress had the two-thirds vote necessary to override a veto .  the bill numbers are h.r. 810 and s. 471 .  stem cells without embryos ?  the battle lines of the stem cell debate have become familiar .  in one corner we have embryonic stem cells , obtained by destroying one-week-old human embryos .  the cells are `` pluripotent , '' capable of producing all the 210 cell types in the human body .  in the other corner are stem cells obtained harmlessly from adult tissues , umbilical cord blood and placentas .  these pose no ethical problem , but supposedly are more limited .  herein lies the alleged tension between science and ethics .  we can cure devastating diseases , or respect embryonic human life , but not both .  that dichotomy has always been misleading .  embryonic stem cells are far from curing any disease , while adult and umbilical cord blood stem cells have helped many thousands of patients .  yet scientists still claim that cells obtained by destroying early human life have special advantages that can not be duplicated .  this claim is about to be tested .  just before congress 's july 4 recess , representative roscoe bartlett ( r-md ) introduced the `` respect for life pluripotent stem cell act. '' it instructs the national institutes of health to fund research in obtaining `` pluripotent '' stem cells without creating or harming human embryos .  mr. bartlett  knows whereof he speaks .  he holds a ph.d .  in physiology , and bases his proposal on a report by the president 's council on bioethics and the latest research findings .  his bill outlines two ways to get pluripotent stem cells without harming embryos .  one is to remove the cells from embryos without harming or destroying them .  the bill would fund such efforts in animal embryos , to see if this can be safe enough to consider doing in humans .  the other approach would produce embryo-like stem cells without creating embryos at all .  a dozen studies now indicate that umbilical cord blood and adult tissues contain stem cells that may be as versatile as embryonic stem cells .  in addition , cutting-edge research suggests that adult cells can be `` reprogrammed '' in several ways into pluripotent stem cells .  one avenue is dubbed `` ant-oar '' -- altered nuclear transfer by oocyte assisted reprogramming .  `` nuclear transfer '' is the cloning method that made dolly the sheep .  the nucleus of a body cell is combined with an egg deprived of its own nucleus .  signals in the egg activate a much wider range of genes in that nucleus , so it no longer directs one specialized type of cell but begins the development of a whole new organism .  what if the egg and the body cell were altered in advance so that , from the beginning , the result is not a one-celled embryo , but a pluripotent stem cell like those now obtained by destroying embryos ?  there are good scientific reasons to believe this can be done .  and many catholic scientists and ethicists have declared that it can and should be explored ( see www.eppc.org/news/newsid.2375/news x & lt ; center & gt ; detail .  asp ) .  & lt ; /center & gt ; it would be good news indeed if modern science ends up resolving some moral dilemmas that an irresponsible use of science has created .  representative bartlett and his colleagues are helping to demonstrate what has always been true : science and ethics were meant to be allies , not enemies .  stem cell legislation is at risk promising but still unproven new approaches to creating human embryonic stem cells have suddenly jeopardized what once appeared to be certain senate passage of a bill to loosen president bush 's four-year-old restrictions on human embryo research .  the techniques are enticing to many conservative activists and scientists because they could yield medically valuable human embryonic stem cells without the creation or destruction embryos .  embryonic stem cells are coveted because they have the capacity to become virtually every kind of body tissue and perhaps repair ailing organs , but they are controversial because days-old human embryos must be destroyed to retrieve them .  `` the new science that may involve embryo research but not require destruction of an embryo is tremendously exciting , '' senate majority leader bill frist ( r-tenn. ) said recently .  `` it would get you outside of the boundaries of the ethical constraints. '' but because the value of these new scientific methods remains speculative , they have complicated the political calculus in the highly partisan senate , which could take up the issue as early as next week .  proponents of embryonic stem cell research are divided over how strongly to promote the new work because of fears it will undermine efforts to expand federal funding of conventional embryo research , which they say has better odds of success .  but some opponents of embryo research are uncomfortable with the emerging alternatives , too .  that is because they involve cells that closely resemble human embryos , raising novel questions about what , exactly , is a human life .  the science poses a strategic dilemma for both groups : should they support newly circulating legislation that would fund the new methods or try to defeat what some decry as a trojan horse ?  `` this is something that could be very valuable if it works , no doubt about it , '' stanford university stem cell researcher irving weissman said of the new work .  `` but do n't tell me we should stop doing [ embryo ] research until we find out , because people 's lives are at stake. '' in may , the house easily passed bipartisan legislation allowing federally funded scientists to study stem cells derived from some of the thousands of human embryos destined for disposal at fertility clinics -- a significant expansion of the bush policy .  until this week , senators arlen specter ( r-pa. ) and orrin g. hatch ( r-utah ) expressed confidence that they had more than enough votes to pass the same bill in the senate , despite threats of a presidential veto .  last week , however , opponents began circulating a competing bill that shifts attention toward the more distant but ethically more palatable new procedures .  the house version , sponsored by representative roscoe g. bartlett ( r-md. ) , was written with assistance from the white house , a bartlett spokeswoman said .  the administration is eager for bush to sign legislation supportive of at least some types of stem cell research , according to several lobbyists close to the congressional negotiations .  signing such a bill could take some of the sting out of a veto that is sure to infuriate patient groups and could rile a majority of americans , who tell pollsters they back expanded funding of embryonic stem cell research .  during the fourth of july recess , many senate republicans struggled with the question of whether the new legislation should be brought to the floor as a substitute for the house-passed bill or as a competing bill -- and if both were to come up , then how to vote on each .  at least a handful of senators have hinted in recent days that they may transfer their vote to the new bill , hill sources said -- among them hatch , johnny isakson ( r-ga. ) and kay bailey hutchison ( r-tex. ) .  the issue will get its first formal airings at a senate subcommittee hearing tuesday and at a hill media event on wednesday at which pro-research celebrities michael j. fox and dana reeve , widow of `` superman '' star christopher reeve , will call for an immediate loosening of bush 's policy .  some supporters of the research say they would be happy if both bills passed .  but for some of the more ardent advocates of an immediate expansion of the bush policy , bartlett 's alternative legislation is a diversion .  `` do n't stop embryonic stem cell research now , hoping there will be some other way to do it in the future , '' senator tom harkin ( d-iowa ) said in an interview .  `` these alternative methods of deriving stem cells -- we do n't know whether they 'll work .  the one thing we do know how to do is derive embryonic stem cells. '' the new techniques fall into two major categories .  in one , a single cell is removed from a days-old embryo created for fertility purposes and coaxed to become a self-replicating colony of stem cells , leaving the remainder of the embryo to develop normally .  the technique shows great promise , according to researchers at advanced cell technology inc .  in worcester , mass. , who pioneered it .  but critics have raised the possibility that individual cells removed from such young embryos may have the biological potential to become embryos themselves , which would mean their destruction or cultivation as colonies could still raise ethical issues .  bush 's council on bioethics also expressed concerns recently that such a technique may subtly harm an embryo , even if it does not kill it .  `` you may get a human being , but you may not get the same human being , '' said william b. hurlbut , a stanford professor and a council member .  `` you might find that late in life , there are some strange differences between those people and others. '' hurlbut is the leading proponent of a different approach , which he calls altered nuclear transfer , or ant .  it involves the creation of an embryo -- or what hurlbut says is something akin to an embryo -- that lacks a gene necessary for the development of a placenta .  because a placenta is required for an embryo to implant in a woman 's womb , the altered embryo would be genetically incapable of becoming a fetus or a baby .  for many , that would obviate ethical concerns about destroying it to get its stem cells .  researchers have tried the technique in mice with some success , but its usefulness as a source of human stem cells remains hypothetical .  some , such as weissman , think the difficulties inherent in making such a system work are being overlooked by hurlbut , who is a physician but not a research scientist .  `` i 've been telling bill , `why do n't you go work in a lab this summer ?  why not see how easy or hard it really is ?  ' `` said weissman .  he said he has no problem with the funding of such research as long as it does not interfere with increased funding for existing programs of embryo research .  practical or not , ant has gained a quickly widening circle of support .  the roman catholic archbishop of san francisco , william j. levada , has written a letter to bush assuring the president of his support .  but other conservative leaders have mixed views on whether it makes sense to pursue the new alternative therapies or to focus single-mindedly on defeating any expansion of the current policy .  `` i have significant concerns about all the alternatives , '' said david prentice , senior fellow for life sciences at the family research council , which he said does not yet have a formal position on the science .  jessica echard , executive director of the eagle forum , the public policy organization founded by phyllis schlafly , said her group opposes `` middle ground '' legislation that pursues alternative methods for producing embryonic stem cells .  `` most scientists will say it 's never enough , '' she said .  `` we will be giving ground to more and more unethical research . '' mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill ( h.r. 2520 ) to provide for the collection and maintenance of human cord blood stem cells for the treatment of patients and research , and to amend the public health service act to authorize the c.w .  bill young cell transplantation program .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on this legislation and to insert extraneous material on the bill .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 2520 , the stem cell therapeutic and research act of 2005 , legislation i have cosponsored along with the honorable gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , who is in the chamber .  this would expand the number of stem cell options available to americans suffering from life-threatening diseases .  every year , nearly two-thirds of the approximately 200 , 000 patients in need of a bone marrow transplant will not find a marrow donor match within their families .  these patients must rely on the help of strangers to donate bone marrow for a transplant .  to assist these patients , congress established the national bone marrow registry to quickly match donors to patients .  through this program , congress made a significant investment to connect patients with a rich source of stem cells that offer immediate clinical benefits .  with scientific advances , congress must now make changes to reflect new therapeutic options .  cord blood units have been shown to be a suitable alternative to adult bone marrow for the treatment of many diseases , including sickle cell anemia .  this is an especially important advancement for those americans who have desperately searched for a marrow donor but could not find a match with even the help of the national bone marrow registry .  as another rich source of stem cells , a cord blood transplant is another chance at life for many of these patients .  the bill before us today builds on the critical investments we have made over the past 2 decades with the national bone marrow registry and retools this design into a new , more comprehensive stem cell transplantation program , which will include not only bone marrow but also cord blood units .  through a competitive contracting process , this new program will allow transplant doctors and patients to access information about cord blood units and bone marrow donors , at the same time , and i want to emphasize at the same time , through a single point of access .  this new program does not create a preference for either cord blood or bone marrow .  instead , it will provide comprehensive information about both sources of stem cells to doctors and patients and allow them to make the most clinically appropriate choice .  i want to recognize the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  at this time .  it was the gentleman from florida 's ( mr. young )  drive , when he was chairman of the committee on appropriations , and his steadfast support for the idea of a national registry for bone marrow that led to the program 's creation .  the gentleman from florida 's ( mr. young )  lifesaving work is evident again today in the program 's new design and goals .  i am pleased that congress is recognizing his dedication by naming this new program the c.w .  bill young cell transplantation program .  i do not see the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  in the chamber , but at the appropriate time when he does arrive , i hope that the body will give him a standing ovation for his work in this area .  the capacity to search for cord blood units through a national network of cord blood banks will help facilitate cord blood transplants .  we also need to expand the inventory of cord blood units so that more transplants can occur .  the bill before us today authorizes a new grant program to provide subsidies to cord blood stem cell banks to expand the inventory of high-quality cord blood units that will be included in the new , expanded cell transplantation program .  i think that number is 150 , 000 units , which is a significant increase .  in addition to expanding the number of cord blood units available for clinical use to save lives today , the bill would also expand the number of cord blood units available for research .  research on adult stem cells holds the potential to develop new cures for many diseases , as well as to expand our knowledge of how human beings develop and the body works .  i would also like to make a personal aside here .  my wife and i are expecting a child in september , and we are working with the cord blood people as we speak so that my son , and it is going to be a little boy and we are going to name him jack ryan , that we are going to save his cord blood so that some day in the future , if he needs it , it will be available .  so in this case i can honestly say , in addition to sponsoring the bill , i am beginning to practice what i am preaching today .  it is not enough to connect patients with lifesaving donors .  we also need to better understand how these patients fair when they receive the transplants .  the bill would authorize research on the clinical outcomes of patients who are recipients of a stem cell therapeutic product , including bone marrow , cord blood , and other such products , from a biologically unrelated donor .  it is my hope that this additional research will trigger new scientific breakthroughs to enhance and advance human life .  this is an important bill that merited many hours of negotiation , demanded the willingness of all those involved to put the interest of their patients first .  i would like to thank the bill 's primary sponsor , the honorable gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  .  i would also like to thank the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  ; the house leadership , including the honorable gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  ; congressional black caucus ; the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  , the ranking democrat on the committee ; the gentleman from ohio ( mr. brown )  , the subcommittee ranking member who is here to speak on the bill ; and all of the staff who have labored on this bill .  particularly , i would like to thank cheryl jaeger , on my left , of my committee staff , for all of her efforts .  she has been tireless in the last several months working on this bill .  in the last few weeks , she has been able to forge a compromise that ultimately was acceptable to all the advocates of both bone marrow and cord blood .  we will continue to improve the legislation that moves forward so that pregnant women are informed of all of their options with respect to cord blood donation and the programmatic activities of the cell transplantation program are clarified .  mr. speaker , at the appropriate time , i would urge all of my colleagues to support this bill .  it is good legislation , well thought out , and deserving of majority support .  the stem cell therapeutic and research act of 2005 establishes a foundation for improving access to lifesaving cellular therapy transplants the national marrow donor program ( nmdp ) is pleased that the sponsors of the stem cell therapeutic and research act of 2005 have taken a positive step forward toward expanding the long-standing congressional commitment to cellular transplant therapies by introducing legislation to continue federal support for bone marrow , peripheral blood , and umbilical cord blood transplantation and research .  through the legislation introduced today , they acknowledge the important role congress has played and must continue to play in ensuring that the more than 14 , 000 americans in need of these types of transplants have access to them .  the bill calls for federal dollars to increase the number of umbilical cord blood units available for transplant and research .  currently , there are 42 , 000 units available through the existing national bone marrow donor registry ( national registry ) , which also lists more than 9 million adult donors worldwide .  with additional umbilical cord blood units added to this registry , more americans who would otherwise not be able to locate a suitably matched adult donor will be able to find hope through a cord blood transplant .  the nmdp estimates that with access to the existing adult donors and units , the addition of 150 , 000 cord blood units listed through the existing registry will provide a match for approximately 95 percent of americans .  by designating the existing national registry as the c.w .  bill young cell transplantation program , the sponsors have acknowledged representative young 's unwavering commitment to the national registry and its growth .  in 1986 , representative young 's vision of a single integrated national bone marrow donor registry became a reality .  since that time , the national registry has facilitated more than 21 , 000 unrelated transplants involving cord blood , bone marrow , and peripheral blood .  it now includes more than 5 million u.s. adult volunteer donors and has links to another 4 million worldwide .  as evidence supporting cord blood as a source of the same cells found in bone marrow and peripheral blood has grown , the national registry , operated by the nmdp , has expanded the expansion of the program will benefit patients most if they are able to access the new sources of cells easily and efficiently .  the nmdp supports the intent of the sponsors to provide patients and physicians with access to cord blood , bone marrow , and peripheral blood stem cells through a single point of access .  to ensure the continued expansion of cord blood transplants , it is important that patients and physicians can search for all of these sources through a single registry , compare each source of cells for transplant quickly and efficiently , and obtain the cells once the search process is finished .  one-stop-shopping to obtain information and logistical support is a critical component of the success of transplantation regardless of whether adult donors or cord blood units are used .  the bill although this bill is a step in the right direction , it is critically important that the program also have the authority to establish criteria and standards that provide transplant physicians with the assurances they need to be confident that when they compare various cord blood units and/or adult donors , they have the same type of information about each unit or donor .  in addition , the nmdp urges members to recognize that transplant patients may encounter other barriers to accessing cellular therapy transplants .  the need for assistance in addressing barriers to access should be extended to all recipients of transplants under this program , regardless of cell source .  physicians and patients must be able to receive all of the services necessary for a successful the nmdp applauds the sponsors for undertaking this important public health initiative .  through their leadership , thousands of americans who might otherwise die will have access to lifesaving bone marrow , peripheral blood stem cell , and cord blood transplants .  statement of administration policy -- may 24 , 2005 the administration strongly supports house passage of h.r. 2520 , which would facilitate the use of umbilical-cord-blood stem cells in biomedical research and in the treatment of disease .  cord-blood stem cells , collected from the placenta and umbilical cord after birth without doing harm to mother or child , have been used in the treatment of thousands of patients suffering from more than 60 different diseases , including leukemia , fanconi anemia , sickle cell disease , and thalassemia .  researchers also believe cord-blood stem cells may have the capacity to be differentiated into other cell types , making them useful in the exploration of ethical stem cell therapies for regenerative medicine .  h.r. 2520 would increase the publicly available inventory of cord-blood stem cells by enabling the department of health and human services ( hhs ) to contract with cord-blood banks to assist them in the collection and maintenance of 150 , 000 cord-blood stem cell units .  this would make matched cells available to treat more than 90 percent of patients in need .  the bill would also link all participating cord-blood banks to a search network operated under contract with hhs , allowing physicians to search for matches for their patients quickly and effectively in one place .  the bill also would reauthorize a similar program already in place for aiding the use of adult bone marrow in medical care .  there is now $ 19 million available to implement the cord blood cell bank the administration also applauds the bill 's effort to facilitate research into the potential of cord-blood stem cells to advance regenerative medicine in an ethical way .  some research indicates that cord blood cells may have the ability to be differentiated into other cell types , in ways similar to embryonic stem cells , and so present similar potential uses but without raising the ethical problems involved in the intentional destruction of human embryos .  the administration encourages efforts to seek ethical ways to pursue stem cell research , and believes that -- with the appropriate combination of responsible policies and innovative scientific techniques -- this field of research can advance without violating important ethical boundaries .  h.r. 2520 is an important step in that direction .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that debate on this motion be extended by 20 minutes , equally divided between myself and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. brown )  .  mr. speaker , i have three willing speakers now and more on the way .  mr. speaker , i have one speaker remaining , and i will close .  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time , and i want to thank the majority leader and the speaker for bringing these two bills to the floor today .  the first vote we will have is on the cord blood and bone marrow bill , h.r. 2520 .  this bill , by itself , is an extremely important advance for those of us that believe you can use medical research ethically to help find cures for existing disease and enhance human life both now and in the future .  i am , obviously , as one of the original sponsors of the bill , going to vote for it and encourage all the members on both sides of the aisle to vote for its .  it is a good piece of legislation and , by itself , is a major advancement in the state of the art that we have today .  the next debate that we will have is on the castle-degette bill which is another form of stem cell research , embryonic stem cell .  that issue is much more controversial , but on its own merit that bill itself deserves a serious debate .  and while it is not yet time to debate that bill , at that time i will announce that i will vote for that bill also .  so i hope we can do first things first .  let us pass in a strong bipartisan fashion the smith-barton-young adult cord blood bone marrow bill , and then go on to the next issue .  mr. speaker , pursuant to the order of the house of monday , may 23 , 2005 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 810 ) to amend the public health service act to provide for human embryonic stem cell research , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  be given 45 minutes of the debate time on the pending bill .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  be allowed to control 20 minutes of the remaining 45 minutes that i currently have control over .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and to insert extraneous material on the pending bill .  mr. speaker , i have a prepared statement i am going to put into the record on this bill , h.r. 810 , but i am going to actually speak from the heart because i think that this is a very important issue .  most of the issues that come before this body , there is an automatic position on .  it may be the republican position , the democrat position , the texas position , or it could be the committee position .  and we come to the floor and we , almost by rote , say what is the particular position , and that is the way we vote .  but every now and then an issue comes up that is really an issue of conscience .  it is an issue that deserves to be thoughtfully considered , debated , and decided on its own merit .  now , there are many members today that believe this particular issue is an issue that they feel so strongly about , on either side , that this is an easy issue for them , it is an automatic issue .  they are going to be for it or against it for very valid reasons .  but there are some of us , and i am in that camp today , that believe it is not an easy issue .  i come to the floor as a 100 percent lifetime voting member on prolife issues , minus one vote , in over 21 years .  on all the votes that the prolife coalition at the state and federal levels have scored as scorable votes , my record until this year was 100 percent , and i voted the wrong way on one issue so far this year from the prolife position .  so that is not a bad record , 100 percent minus one .  and after this vote today , i am going to be 100 percent minus two .  why is that ?  well , part of it is personal and part of it deals with tragedies in my family in the past .  my father died of complications of diabetes at the age of 71 .  my brother , jon kevin barton , died of liver cancer at the age of 44 .  my first granddaughter , bryn barton , died in the womb 2 days before delivery with complications of the umbilical cord , which had become crimped , and she was actually born dead .  maybe the research we are debating today could not have helped any of those diseases or could not have helped my granddaughter , but maybe it could .  i am also going to vote for castle-degette because of the future , not just the past .  my wife terri and i are expecting a baby in september , jack kevin barton , named after her late father and my late brother , jon kevin barton .  he may come into this world with some disease .  hopefully not .  i have three children that are already alive , brad , alison , and kristin .  i have two stepchildren , lindsay and cullen .  i have three grandchildren that are living , blake , brent and bailey barton .  maybe they will live healthy , productive lives and they will never need some therapeutic breakthrough , but maybe they will .  maybe they will .  now , we just voted for an expansion of cord blood and bone marrow research , which is a very , very good deal , and it deals with adult stem cells .  and maybe the breakthrough is going to come in adult stem cells .  i hope it does .  i would love it .  but maybe , just maybe , it is going to come because of embryonic stem cells .  now , the president adopted a position in early 2001 that said the existing stem cell lines then in existence could be federally funded for research .  they thought there were about 78 lines .  it turned out that there were 22 they are using , there are 16 that are frozen , and there may be one or two more that might be used .  but in any event , none of those lines that are currently allowed to be used for research purposes at the federal level have been shown to have that breakthrough stem cell .  there are 200 adult cells in the body .  the hope of stem cell research , whether it is adult or embryonic , is that we will find that one perfect cell that can be replicated into any of the other cells .  it is assumed , and it is an assumption , not a fact , that the plasticity of the embryonic cell is better and that there is a greater likelihood , although the research has only been done for the last 7 or 8 years , that there is a likelihood there might be a greater potential .  and i want to emphasize might be .  so where i come down is , let us look at all the avenues .  we just voted for smith-barton-young .  let us also vote for castle-degette and look at all of our resources .  that is why i am going to vote `` yes. '' mr. speaker , i rise to manage the time of debate on h.r. 810 , legislation designed to expand the number of sources of embryonic stem cell lines that may be the subject of federally funded research .  the bill is straightforward , yet the policy concerns surrounding this bill are anything but black and white .  before i yield time to my colleagues , i want to clarify a few of the following facts .  what the sponsors of this bill are trying to do is create enough lines of embryonic stem cells to allow basic scientific research to move forward .  many scientists believe that once we can identify a perfect , undifferentiated stem call , it will lead to significant scientific breakthroughs and the discovery of cures for many diseases .  currently , there are approximately 22 lines of embryonic stem cells that are available for federally funded research .  this number is far below the estimated number of stem cell lines that were thought to exist in august of 2001 , when the president announced his stem cell policy .  when president bush announced that federal research dollars could be used for the first time on then existing stem cells , it was believed that there were at least 60 viable lines of stem cells that could be used for this research .  for a variety of reasons , not all of these potential lines are now available for research .  we will also eventually need additional embryonic stem cell lines to make further scientific advances .  in recent conversations with leading stem cell researchers , they indicated to me that all lines of embryonic stem cells eventually become exhausted .  in order to produce clinical therapies , it is likely that researchers will also need more embryonic stem cell lines , of different genetic variations , than are presently eligible to receive federal support .  in addition , the majority of the existing embryonic stem cell lines eligible for federal support use mouse feeder cells , which will make it nearly impossible for these embryonic stem cell lines to be adopted in clinical use .  for all of these reasons , researchers believe that the current number of embryonic stem cell lines will have to be increased .  it is difficult to take an ideologically pure position on this issue .  president bush recognized this on august 9 , 2001 .  on recognizing the profound potential benefits of embryonic stem cell research , president bush permitted for the first time federal taxpayer dollars to be spent on embryonic stem cell research .  for my entire career in congress , i have been a staunch defender of the culture of life and opposed all forms of abortion .  at the same time , i believe we have an obligation to improve existing lives and do what we can to make them better in the future .  today , on this difficult issue , members will need to vote their consciences .  my decision to support this bill was a difficult one , which i came to only after much personal struggle and reflection .  my decision was shaped , in part , by the painful experiences of my own family .  we lost my brother jon in 2000 , at the age of 44 , after a long struggle with liver cancer .  my father died after suffering from complications resulting from diabetes .  let me tell you for a moment about my brother , jon .  he was younger than me .  he and his wife , jennifer , had two children , jake and jace .  he was a state district judge in texas .  they told jon he had liver cancer when he was just 41 years old .  we tried everything and , in fact , his cancer went into remission .  the next year , it came back .  jon died in just three months short of his 44th birthday .  i offered to give him part of my liver , but the doctors said he was too far-gone and it would n't work .  that was five years ago .  jake is now 15 , and jace is 12 .  every time i see them and their mom , i think of jon and wonder what stem cell research could have done for our family .  i can not know the truth with absolute certainty , but my heart says that my brother and my father might be with me today if their doctors had access to treatments from stem cell research .  their lives were precious to me and to our family .  i come to my decision on this vote because i believe in life , and in the future .  if a vote today can save other families from losing brothers and fathers , my conscience will not permit any other decision .  i fully understand that some will say i am just wrong , or blinded by personal emotion .  many who disagree with me are my friends , and i completely respect their views and their advice .  they are good people , and good people with the same facts sometimes come to different conclusions .  now , a few others will say that death is simply a part of life .  no , it is not .  i do not believe that we can ever accept that proposition without setting out on an extraordinary and dangerous path .  life is to be cherished and extended , and death is to be fought and never accepted .  my father and my brother died because illnesses took them .  if i can do something to cure illness and thwart death for other families , i will because i must .  scientists believe that expanded embryonic stem cell research holds the potential to find cures for diseases like cancer or diabetes .  it is my hope that supporting this bill will mean that many other american families will never have to endure the suffering and loss that my family went through .  i believe that my obligation is to help advance science to make human life better now and in the future , in a manner that is consistent with judeo-christian ethics .  as we move forward with debate on this bill , my only request is that my colleagues try to respect one another and the deeply held beliefs on both sides of this very complex issue .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i am prepared to recognize the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. pitts )  if the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  also wants to recognize him at this time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , first of all , i want to thank the majority leader , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , for the tenor of the debate today and for granting extended time and making sure all points of view have been heard on this important issue .  although i am going to vote for castle/degette , i do not necessarily speak as an advocate for its passage as much as i want to speak about why i have decided to vote for it .  i respect members on both sides of this issue .  i made sure that members of the committee i chair , the committee on energy and commerce , regardless of their position , had an opportunity to speak and put their comments on the record .  i come at this as a 100 percent pro-life , lifetime , voting member of congress .  as i said earlier , this will be my second vote this year where i have not adopted the pro-life position .  so i am not quite 100 percent any more , but i would think that 99.8 percent over 21 years qualifies me as a pro-life congressman .  i have also voted numerous times for our defense bill , where we have voted hundreds of billions of dollars to defend our nation and put our young men and women at risk , some of them that might have to give up their lives .  i have voted for many bills for our law enforcement officials , where again they may have to give up their lives to protect the common good .  now , you might say , yes , but in those instances they were adults and they had free will and they voluntarily made a choice that they might have to sacrifice their lives .  well , i accept and support that an embryo is a life .  i agree with the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. ferguson )  that we were all embryos once .  i understand that .  and , obviously , at 7 days or 14 days , embryos do not have consciousness .  they do not have free will .  they do not have the neuro cells or brain cells to make a decision whether they want to voluntarily make a sacrifice .  i understand that .  but i would say this : if they did , out of the 400 , 000 that we think may be in existence , if you narrow that down to the 2.8 percent that the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  talked about that are probably not going to be used for reproductive purposes , if they did , would not some of them , knowing the stakes , volunteer ?  it only takes one , the right one , that magic silver bullet embryo that creates that magic stem cell that can be replicated into any of the 200 cell lines that make up the human body .  if i had that opportunity , might i not take advantage of it ?  somebody would .  and since they can not , because they do not have consciousness , under a traditional law in this united states of america we give custody to the parents .  a parent will make a decision at some point in time , or a family member will make a decision at some point in time that perhaps they do not want to put up for adoption , which is the decision i would make .  why not ?  in addition to the cord blood bill that we have just passed , why not make it possible for some of these under the conditions in the castle/degette bill for some to be used for research purposes .  it does not take many .  i respect those who say , no , you can not do it at all .  but i also say given a choice , let us err on the side of opportunity .  that is why i am going to vote `` yes . '' mr. speaker , a `` yes '' vote today is a vote for progress , for reason and for sound research .  mr. speaker , it is conservative to conserve , and this bill utilizes stem cells that have already been discarded , discarded because in most cases those who undergo in-vitro fertilization have excess fertilized cells available .  their only choice today has been for freezer storage , putting them up for adoption or discarding them , yes , into hospital medical waste .  now we will add a fourth option , and that is to allow these embryos to be used for scientific research , to find cures for diseases that have afflicted americans , a large portion of americans , that threaten the lives of young people .  this is not about life , this is about saving life , and it is important that the congress make this statement for a brighter future for many , many americans .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 810 .  science has advanced rapidly since the president announced his stem cell research policy .  these cells were just identified less than 10 years ago and , already , the technology is progressing by leaps and bounds .  the 22 lines currently available under the president 's policy were developed using outdated techniques and have been contaminated , possibly skewing the outcome of experiments .  given the promise that stem cells hold , it is time to drop the limit on current stem cell lines and allow researchers to do what they do best .  it is tragic to let these cells go to waste when they could help to relieve so much suffering .  it is time to let researchers go where the science leads them , not where politicians dictate .  in order to explore all of the possibilities , scientists must have access to all three kinds of stem cells : adult , embryonic , and those from the umbilical cord blood .  that is why i plan to vote for h.r. 810 and the smith bill as well .  the two are not in opposition ; they are complementary .  mr. speaker , i am proud to support h.r. 810 and for the sake of the millions suffering from diseases , i ask my colleagues to do the same .  mr. speaker , i want to thank our chairman , and also thank the leader .  you know , i believe that everybody engaged in this debate today means well , and this is one of those great debates that we have on this floor .  it is full of passion .  but this is not a debate about passion .  it is not a debate about style .  this is a debate about substance .  and the substance of this debate is life , clear and simple .  you know , there is a fact on this , also , i think we ought to look at .  while we do not know where embryonic stem cell research might lead us , we do know that engaging in this form of research would require ending a human life for the purpose of experimentation .  and that is something that i do not think any of us want to sanction .  and in my opinion , we would be giving away our humanity , our sense of ethics , for the mere hope , the mere hope that this form of research would someday yield results .  meanwhile , h.r. 810 , the bill that is under discussion diverts funds from research that has proven results , from research that does not require us to look the other way while human life is purposely ended .  adult stem cell research has made great leaps .  we have heard about that today .  cord blood research has made great strides .  we have heard about that also today .  and we hear that by using islet cells from living donors or adult brain cells instead of embryos , there is a potential to cure diabetes .  i think we should all vote `` no '' on h.r. 810 .  we should stop and look at the substance of the debate .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's courtesy of yielding me this time .  i have been touched by the personal stories that we have heard here today .  i think people are genuinely speaking from the heart .  but the issue remains that we have embryonic stem cells that are either going to be thrown away for largely theological reasons , or they will be used for research to save lives .  this research is going to take place in the united states and around the world .  the question is , how rapidly ?  the question is whether the united states government 's official policy will remain frozen in place , or whether we will exert the same type of leadership that we have exerted in other areas of research , technology , and dealing with human health .  for the sake of life , for the sake of health , for the sake of our families , i hope that this legislation passes , that we will be able to make sure that the federal government exerts its appropriate role in making sure that we have the resources , the direction , and the control to do this successfully .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time and for his leadership and the leadership of others on this debate today .  this debate is defined in so many ways by the conscience of each member ; and as each member comes to the floor , as each member speaks , i think my colleagues can see that this debate uniquely is based on their own view of this and their deeply founded view of this .  in fact , the whip 's office is not real busy today , because we are not whipping this vote .  i do not think my friends on the other side are whipping this vote either .  why would that be ?  why would we have a vote on a bill like this that , based on the debate , is so important that we would not be trying to persuade members ?  because we feel on both sides of this aisle , apparently , today that this is a matter of real conscience .  this is a matter where people can deeply disagree .  this is a matter about the very definition of life itself .  because of that , i am firmly on the side of those who believe it is not time yet to federally fund this particular kind of research .  there is private sector funding available .  some states like the state of california recently decided they would fund this in a significant way .  other states have decided they would totally outlaw research .  so this is clearly an issue where the country is divided .  the ethics of this issue , as the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. kaptur )  suggested earlier , are not as clear as they should be .  the future ownership and use of this research is not as clear as it needs to be .  the first principle of bioethics should be : first , do no harm .  we are not at the point in this issue where we can firmly say we are not doing harm .  we are at the point when we can say that all of those concerns that this research is not possible if we do not fund it with federal funding are just not right .  this research is possible .  i do not agree with it myself , but i particularly do not agree that we should take the tax money of millions and millions of taxpayers who believe this is absolutely wrong and pay for this research in that way .  i urge a `` no '' vote on this bill , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , every invention , each new scientific concept , every technical advance in the history of mankind has been challenged and analyzed and debated , and properly so .  change makes us uncomfortable , forces us to design new paradigms ; but in the final analysis , it is man 's fundamental obligation to use science for the betterment of mankind .  in this instance , we are called upon to heal diseases that have plagued and bewildered us for centuries .  it would be unconscionable and irresponsible should we fail to live up to our obligation in this critical matter .  the moral and ethical question is this , do we destroy embryos , simply discard them , embryos that will never be implanted in a womb but which can advance stem cell research to cure historic illnesses ?  the answer is , no , we should move forward with important scientific research , forward movement which will be enhanced in a measured way by passage of the measure before us .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 810 .  i would like to thank the chairman for all of his work in bringing this bill to the floor , and i would like to thank my leadership for allowing a vote on this important legislation .  as representatives , we are in the unique position to frequently meet with a wide cross-section of people , many of whom are suffering from debilitating diseases , injuries , and ailments .  these millions of patients , as well as their loved ones , have a clear message for policymakers : we support this research and we need their help .  opponents of this bill have argued that we should not use federal funds to pay for embryonic stem cell research .  i respectfully disagree .  the issue at hand is allowing for more pristine stem cell lines to be eligible for research .  scientists and researchers throughout the united states are constantly reminding us that the focus needs to be on the quality of the stem cell lines available which are eligible for federal research .  i would also like to state that there is no funding for the derivation of the lines and the lines must be ethically in accordance with the principles the president has laid out in his policy .  we are undoubtedly slowing research progress by forbidding researchers from using federal funds to conduct research .  former first lady nancy reagan has said about embryonic stem cell research : `` science has presented us with a hope called stem cell research , which may provide our scientists with many answers that for so long have been beyond our grasp .  i just do n't see how we can turn our backs on this .  we have lost so much time already .  i just really ca n't bear to lose any more. '' we all know that the impetus for nancy reagan was the battle that her husband , president ronald reagan , fought with alzheimer 's disease .  the former first lady is not alone .  over 4.5 million americans are affected by alzheimer 's .  i am encouraged by scientists ' claims that embryonic stem cells will allow for more research on alzheimer 's , including the possibility that they may be used to grow new brain cells to replace the brain tissue destroyed by the disease .  dana reeves , the widow of actor and activist christopher reeves , sat with me less than 2 months ago and shared her family 's devastating story .  the potential for turning the hope for spinal cord injury into reality is evident , and i believe that by passing this legislation we can clear the way for research to move forward .  dana and nancy are just two of the more visible faces of public figures who have asked for this research .  mr. speaker , i implore my colleagues to please support this legislation , h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  today , mr. speaker , we will consider two bills that have significant bearing on the future of medicine and medical research in our country .  i want to thank the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  and the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  for their work on the first of these bills .  the smith-barton legislation reauthorizes the national bone marrow donor program and adds a new national cord blood registry .  cord blood and bone marrow have several therapeutic uses in common : first and foremost , the treatment of blood diseases .  coordinating these two registries makes sense for patients , for doctors , and for the public health .  with this kind of coordinated program , there will be a single entry point for transplant doctors and their patients to locate available cord blood units .  this bill also increases outreach and education efforts so that we can amass the most diverse possible reserves of cord blood .  it improves data keeping and distribution so that necessary blood gets to patients as quickly and as accurately as possible .  in addition to the therapeutic uses of cord blood , this bill makes cord blood stem cells available for research purposes .  there is clearly therapeutic potential in the use of cord blood and adult stem cells .  some of the most important research in this area is taking place in ohio , in northeast ohio , where i call home , at the national center for regenerative medicine , a partnership of case western reserve university hospitals , and the cleveland clinic in cleveland .  i mentioned we will be considering two bills today that have significant bearing on the future of medicine .  and it is in the research area that the distinctions between these two bills takes on the greatest significance .  smith-barton focuses on cord-blood and adult stem cell research .  in the castle-degette bipartisan bill , it focuses on embryonic stem cell research .  that is a critical distinction , and the house needs to acknowledge that .  cord-blood and adult stem cell research are not substitutes for embryonic stem cell research .  they are not alternative avenues to the same medical outcomes .  each type of research holds unique potential .  for example , while adult stem cells represent an important advance in the treatment of blood disorders , these cells simply do not occur in every tissue in the body .  because there are no adult stem cells , for example , in the pancreas , the potential of adult stem cells to develop into therapies for a disease like diabetes is very limited .  that is one example of many .  embryonic stem cell , on the other hand , can grow into any type of cell in the body , making potential use of these far more diverse and far more valuable .  we should not minimize the importance of cord-blood and adult stem cell research , but by the same token , we should n't mislead the public into believing that if smith-barton passes , the castle-degette bill is unnecessary , because surely it is not .  it is irresponsible and even dangerous for members of this body to distort the value of one form of research in order to stifle another promising avenue of research .  we in this congress have a responsibility to support medical research and to foster its development , as the committee of the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  committee has done well over time .  millions of lives have been saved and improved because of the brilliant research conducted in this country .  we also have a responsibility to speak honestly about that research and its potential .  both sides of this debate owe it to the public to draw clear lines between the beliefs we hold and the facts that hold , regardless of what we believe .  the fact is that cord-blood research , adult stem cell research and embryonic stem cell research are not interchangeable .  the fact is , if we invest in all three types of research , we may finally be able to find cures for debilitating illnesses , cures that are currently beyond our reach .  the fact is , if the u.s. withholds funding for embryonic stem cell research , that research will continue , just at a significantly slower pace .  people that you and i know , they may be friends , they may be family members , they may be professional colleagues , will suffer and die from potentially curable illnesses while we wait for the rest of the world to fill our shoes .  researchers in other nations , researchers in private institutions in this country , are pursuing embryonic stem cell research because they know that it is possible to accomplish this research in an ethical manner .  embryonic stem cell research does not and need not increase the number of embryos that are destroyed .  instead , it decreases the number of embryos that are destroyed in vain .  we will have an opportunity today to pass two pieces of legislation , both are important , that will deliver hope to patients whose futures depend on new answers to life and death medical questions .  our nation can not pick and choose between cord-blood research and adult stem cell research and embryonic stem cell research if we want to answer all these questions , unless we want to offer hope to some and sympathy to others .  mr. speaker , i urge members to vote in favor of both the smith-barton bill and the castle-degette bill .  doing so will show that what you know and what you believe intersects at the point where medical progress is harnessed to alleviate untold human suffering .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , could the chair inform both sides how much time is remaining ?  mr. speaker , how many speakers does the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  have remaining and , mr. speaker , who has the right to close ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , we wonder , as most medical scientists wonder , why not both kinds of research .  we in no way want to restrict it to just one or the other like my friends on the other side of the aisle .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i have two remaining speakers .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1- 1/4 minutes .  mr. speaker , i would like to share the words from the president who seems to have sent a different message than my friends on the other side of the aisle .  president bush said , `` most scientists believe that research on embryonic stem cells offers the most promise because these cells have the potential to develop in all of the tissues in the body. '' i hear my friends on the other side of the aisle argue that we really only need cord blood stem cell research , that that will lead us to all that we need .  and the president said about that , that `` no adult stem cell has been shown in culture to be pluripotent. '' and he said , `` embryonic stem cells have the potential to develop into all or nearly all of the tissues in the body. '' i then hear my friends on the other side of the aisle talk about research , that this is going to lead to so much more research .  yet at the same time we have seen no increase , flat-lined spending , budgeting on the national institutes of health , something that many of us , the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  and many of the rest of us , have thought we should increase spending on , medical research all across the board in all kinds of medical research .  yes , in order to make room for the president 's tax cuts that have gone overwhelmingly to the wealthiest in our country , we have simply cut medical research and not done what we should as a nation do overall in medical research .  so when i hear my friends talk on this , i do not quite get how this will expand medical research while closing out one whole avenue of medical research and , at the same time , cutting spending on what we should be doing to move our country ahead .  mr. speaker , i come from florida , and a lot of people think that only retirees and seniors live in florida , but i want to put a face on a couple that was very successful with in vitro fertilization .  they are 47 years old .  they had a daughter born as a result of in vitro fertilization .  the child was born with multiple heart problems and had to have three surgeries before she was 2 years old .  this couple believes that far more good can come from donating the remaining embryos for research .  they have decided not to have any more children .  and ultimately what we have not heard here is what the american people want .  this is a couple that wants to be able to donate the embryos , which certainly they can do now , but they also want to have federal research dollars go toward this .  this really is all about where taxpayer dollars go .  and when you look at the huge book of pork that comes out every single year , when we go back home and say to our constituents , would you rather have some of this money going to , for example , some foreign countries that regularly turn their backs on us , or would you like to see some significant research done from embryonic stem cells that would be disposed of , the majority of our constituents are clearly going to say , use the money for significant research .  we have to remember that this is not an either/or .  certainly the umbilical cord research is a great science .  we need to move forward with that as well as the embryonic stem cell research .  remember , for this couple and her husband deciding to donate those embryos , they believe they will be saving other children 's lives .  they believe they will be helping an aunt who has early-stage alzheimer 's .  they believe they will be able to help spinal cord injury victims .  that is what this research holds the potential for .  no , we do not have the cures yet ; but unless we go forward , we never will .  i fully support the castle/degette bill , and hope other members do , too .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  i stand with 200 of america 's most respected research organizations in support of this bill .  i would like to especially thank congressmen castle and degette for their tireless efforts on behalf of the millions of people who may benefit from enhanced stem cell research .  i would also like to thank speaker hastert and leader delay for the debate today and for giving the 200+ cosponsors of this legislation a vote on the house floor .  i rise today as a mother , as a concerned grandparent , and as someone who is worried that the untapped potential of stem cell research may be falling by the wayside .  in my congressional district on the gulf coast of florida , i have had the pleasure of meeting holly , a 47-year-old mother of two .  like many americans , holly and her husband had trouble getting pregnant , and their first daughter was born through in vitro fertilization .  her daughter was born with a congenital heart condition , and had three surgeries before her second birthday .  as with most in vitro fertilization procedures , holly and her husband had several embryos left over after the procedure .  they chose to keep the remaining embryos frozen .  this couple was then blessed by a second miracle daughter who was conceived without in vitro fertilization the happy couple decided not to have any more children , and had to make a choice about what to do with their frozen embryos .  holly and her husband are well aware of operation snowflake and the adoption options for their embryos .  but , like many other parents , they would rather donate their embryos for research to help prevent heart disease -- like their daughter was born with -- or cure cancer , alzheimer 's disease or parkinson 's .  for holly and her husband , they decided that donating their embryos for medical research would be their best chance to save other children 's lives .  increasing stem cell research could find potential cures for many diseases that affect so many american families .  put another way , the issue of embryos and their ability to be used for stem cell research is kind of like a flashlight .  until you put the batteries in , a flashlight will not produce light .  likewise , only when an embryo is implanted in a uterus to grow , can life be sustained .  embryos sitting frozen in a clinic help no one .  the embryo does not grow in the frozen state , so human life is not being created and nurtured .  in addition , when the couple stops paying the daily fees to store the embryos , unless they have the medical donation option , their remaining embryos will be disposed of as medical waste .  that would be tragic .  holly and her husband know this fact .  they know that without the nurturing and love that a woman 's body provides , these embryos will be wasted .  science tells us that after as short a time as eight years , these frozen embryos will begin to deteriorate , and lose their viability for implantation .  mr. speaker , these embryos are too important to linger in a frozen test tube or to see discarded without helping mankind .  additionally , i have yet to hear in this entire debate what opponents of h.r. 810 would do with those embryos that are not adopted , and eventually go to waste in a cryogenic freezer .  would they want those embryos to be thrown out as medical waste , or instead help provide the basis for life-affirming scientific research ?  holly and her husband know that the great potential and promise of stem cell research will not move forward without their donated embryos and their support .  however , it is their respect for the culture of life that has brought them to this decision .  they have weighed the choices available to them , and rather than donating the embryo for adoption , have chosen to let their embryos potentially save millions of lives .  thousands of people around the country have made similar decisions to support life-affirming and life-enhancing research .  h.r. 810 will give hope where hope does not exist .  passage of this bill today will let the research on stem cells continue under ethical guidelines , and will provide millions of americans suffering from terminal diseases the hope that they have been denied .  all these organizations listed on this posterboard , such as the american academy for cancer research and the american medical association , support h.r. 810 .  i urge my fellow members of congress to vote yes on the bill mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader and my chairman for yielding me this time .  i do rise in opposition to this bill today .  the debate that we are about is expanding federal funding , not limiting research .  there are no bona fide treatments available for embryonic stem cells .  there is nothing in the laboratory , and there is certainly nothing in the clinics available to patients .  honesty is an important part of this debate , and i am concerned that more than a promise has been offered to people who are suffering and the reality is that those potential treatments are much more limited than they have been portrayed .  the president , i think , wisely put parameters , set boundaries around this type of research back in 2001 .  let us not forget that private funding for stem cell research is available today .  a couple who has an embryo developed in an ivf clinic is perfectly free to take that embryo to a lab at harvard or california and have a stem cell line developed .  the reality is in a poll of my reproductive endocrinologists back home : that never comes up as an issue .  but 22 cell lines are currently utilized .  there are an additional 31 cell lines available , per dr .  zerhouni 's testimony before our committee , that will be developed after the issue of animal growth medium becomes overcome .  and there are two papers out this past week that indicate that that date may be quickly upon us .  mr. speaker , i think it is important that we follow the money in this debate .  the reality is if there are indeed a third of the population of the united states who would benefit from this research , i believe that the big biotech money would be jumping into this .  we would not be able to keep them out .  they would be buying patents and capturing cell lines for their future use .  if there is one thing we learned in the last presidential election , it was that both major candidates asserted that life begins at conception , and we are talking about taking a life .  remember that that inner cell mass that we are talking about that is taken at about 2 weeks of development , if we put that on a timeline of a human pregnancy , about 5 days later we are going to see a heartbeat on a sonogram .  so , mr. speaker , this is what the debate is all about .  i urge us to protect life and vote against this bill .  mr. speaker , today the house can vote to give millions of americans suffering from diseases new hope .  patients , doctors , and scientists are desperately awaiting the potential that stem cell research has for treating diseases like alzheimer 's , als , cancer , heart diseases , diabetes , spinal cord injuries , and so many others .  my state of california is already on the way .  californians overwhelmingly support this research and decided not to tie the hands of our scientists , not to block the promising new opportunities that stem cell research affords .  now our congress has the opportunity to follow suit .  this is the kind of research we wanted when we created the national institutes of health .  federally funded research ensures that the public benefits and that the research is ethically conducted .  i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , as my colleague from massachusetts eloquently stated a minute ago , today this house has a historic opportunity to vote for hope , hope for millions of americans suffering with devastating diseases .  these patients , their doctors and scientists , have reason to hope , the potential that embryonic stem cell research has for developing new treatments for these devastating diseases .  one of my dearest friends recently died of als , or lou gehrig 's disease , which causes fatal destruction of nerve cells .  the slow death sentence that als gives its victims is brutal .  the disease took away my young friend tom 's ability to control his own muscles , paralyzing them and ultimately making it impossible for him to breathe .  stem cell research provides hope , not for tom but for future als victims .  scientists believe they can use stem cell research to replace the devastated nerve cells that als leaves behind .  with heart disease affecting so many of us in this nation , the promise of embryonic stem cell research has advancements for the human heart which are incredible to think of .  instead of patients suffering because their heart cells are failing and no longer able to pump blood , new ways could be discovered to replace those cells .  and with regard to cancer , stem cell research has enormous potential .  for example , it could facilitate the testing of new medications and treatments , not in time for my daughter 's life , but for her young children 's generation .  we can not afford to wait .  and it could be used to grow bone marrow that matches a patient and is not rejected by his or her body .  in each of these cases , stem cell research holds out promise .  it provides hope that longer , better-quality lives are possible .  that is what this bill is about .  it will expand the ability of the national institutes of health to fund this research and improve the chances for finding new treatments and cures .  as we have discussed , each year thousands of embryos no bigger than the head of a pin are created in the process of in vitro fertilization .  a small percentage of these embryos are implanted and , hopefully , become much-longed-for children .  some of the rest will be frozen , but most are discarded .  they will not be used to create life , they will never become children , they will be lost without purpose .  but under h.r. 810 , with the informed consent of the donor , under strict ethical guidelines , these embryos can be used to give life to millions of americans .  today , we can give this hope to millions who have little to hope for now .  this is an historic opportunity .  i urge my colleagues to do the right thing , to support lifesaving medical research .  support h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 810 .  this bipartisan legislation will enhance existing stern cell research and help our nation 's scientists make significant progress toward the development of treatments for conditions affecting more than 100 million americans .  but this is not just about americans .  for years , our country has led the world in medical advancements , and people from around the globe travel here for medical education as well as for lifesaving care .  today , the house is considering opening new lines of research -- research that will help the united states retain its place as a world leader in this burgeoning new field , while helping to alleviate the pain and suffering of many around the world .  current federal policy , put into place by president bush on august 9 , 2001 , allows federal funds to be used to support research from the stern cell lines that existed on that date , but it bans the creation of additional stern cells from embryos that are stored at in vitro fertilization clinics .  to many observers , this policy seemed a reasonable compromise at the time , as many scientists believed that the existing 78 stern cell lines would be available for use .  in fact , only 22 lines are available and some of these were found to have been contaminated from contact with mouse `` feeder '' cells .  in addition , the 22 available lines were developed using science that has since seen significant improvements .  scientists at the national institutes of health report that these lines also lack the genetic diversity necessary to perform extensive research for diseases that disproportionately since the president 's policy was implemented , i have heard from hundreds of marylanders who have been diagnosed with debilitating illnesses , including leukemia , diabetes , parkinson 's disease , alzheimer 's disease , and spinal cord injuries .  they are grateful for the federal research funding that congress has provided in past years , particularly the doubling of the nih budget over a five year period , and they look to the future with hope that more effective treatments and someday , cures , will be forthcoming .  i have also heard from the academic medical centers across the country .  these are the places where the most complex medical procedures are performed , where medical school graduates from around the world are trained , where our most groundbreaking research is conducted .  two of the finest academic medical centers are located in baltimore -- the university of maryland medical center and the johns hopkins university medical center .  this bill presents an opportunity to expand their ability to make life saving and life extending discoveries .  some of my colleagues have raised ethical concerns about stem cell research , and i believe that this bill effectively addresses these concerns .  the authors of this bill , mr. castle and ms. degette , have written this legislation so as to not encourage the creation of human embryos for research or for any other purposes .  this bill stipulates that all embryos used for research must have been originally created for in vitro fertilization and are in excess of clinical need ; it requires that the embryos would not have been implanted and would have otherwise been discarded ; and it requires donors to provide written consent before embryos may be donated for research .  these guidelines are ethically sound ; they help ensure that enhancing stem cell research policy will not come at the expense of respect for human life .  it is not certain that stem cell research will result in cures , but it is fairly certain that if we close off promising avenues , such as stem cell research , finding those therapies and cures will take much longer .  in 2001 , two months before president bush issued his stem cell policy , sue stamos and her daughter , faith , came to visit me in my office .  at the time , faith was three years old -- a very brave little girl who had been diagnosed with juvenile diabetes .  sue asked for my support for federal research to help find a cure for faith , and i promised to do everything i could to help .  back in june of 2001 , our knowledge of stem cell research 's potential was nowhere near what it is now , and we did not yet know what the president would propose .  today , we have much broader and deeper knowledge about the scientific possibilities of stem cells , but much less capacity to research stem cell lines than we had anticipated .  today , i will vote to keep my promise to sue and faith stamos and to the thousands of other marylanders who are waiting for cures .  i will vote to expand the stem cells lines available for federally funded research .  mr. speaker , in closing , i must note that stem cell research is a controversial and emotional subject .  it touches on questions of human suffering , medical ethics , scientific potential , the role of government , moral considerations , and life itself .  h.r. 810 strikes the right balance .  it encourages research , but it does not encourage the creation of embryos for research purposes .  it allows us to support the efforts of the brilliant scientists in our research institutions who have dedicated their careers to alleviating the suffering of others .  it allows us to honor the wishes of in vitro fertilization donors who want to make a contribution toward medical advancement .  it was right for the leadership to allow a vote on this important bill , and it is right for the house to pass it .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i wish to express my strong , principled and hopeful support of h.r. 810 .  i commend the vital leadership of my brave colleagues , representatives castle and degette , for bringing this urgent issue to the floor .  federal funding for embryonic stem cell research is needed to help american scientists move this research forward , research which has the potential to revolutionize medicine and save countless lives .  while adult stem cells have been very useful in treating some cancers , embryonic stem cells appear to have a far greater potential for treating disease than adult stem cells .  scientists regard embryonic stem cell research as one of the greatest hopes for the cure of medical conditions such as parkinson 's disease and diabetes due to their unique ability to develop into virtually any type of cell in the body .  recently , researchers at the university of miami came up with a technique to transform embryonic stem cells into the insulin-producing cells destroyed by type-l diabetes .  such research may also help us better understand the causes of birth defects , genetic abnormalities , and other conditions that arise during the critical period of early human growth .  other possible medical applications include the repair of crippling injuries such as spinal cord damage and the ability to correct the damaging side effects of existing medical treatments like chemotherapy .  this debate is not about whether or not embryonic stem cell research will progress , for it surely will .  this research is already taking place around the globe , and right here in america .  the question is : will we lead the way ?  this debate is about american leadership in this world .  for generations america has led the world in scientific advances .  we must continue to support the work of our brilliant scientists and help them once again lead the world in this vitally important new field .  this bipartisan legislation would expand the scope of stem cell research while enacting stringent procedural guidelines .  all activities would be subject to the strict ethical guidelines of the national institutes of health .  no federal funds would be used to conduct research on unapproved stem cell lines .  the cells used in this research will be donated voluntarily by patients of in-vitro fertilization clinics .  it makes no sense , and it is just plain wrong to ban research using embryos that are being simply thrown away today .  mr. speaker , it is not our place as legislators to decide which medical research does and does not have merit .  we must not block advances in life-saving and ethically conducted science .  i commend my colleagues for supporting this critical legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 2520 , which establishes a national cord blood stem cell inventory , a cord blood system , and to reauthorize the national bone marrow registry .  this is an important piece of legislation because it addresses a vital need to establish a publicly coordinated national umbilical cord blood bank similar to the national bone marrow registry .  however , it is important to note that umbilical cord blood cells are a type of adult stem cells that have been used only to treat blood disorders like leukemia and lymphoma .  scientists do not believe that these cord blood stem cells will provide answers to diseases like diabetes , parkinson 's , spinal cord injuries , or other nonblood-related disorders .  according to dr .  david shaywitz , an endocrinologist and stem cell researcher at harvard , it seems extremely unlikely that adult blood cells or blood cells from the umbilical cord will be therapeutically useful as a source of anything else but blood .  that is why we must support all forms of stem cell research , including embryonic stem cell research , so researchers have the greatest chance of discovering treatments and cures .  that is why i am supporting this legislation as well as h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act , to expand the current federal embryonic stem cell policy .  i urge everyone to support this legislation and support h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. speaker , just speaking to the members perhaps back in the offices listening , i have 820 , 000 constituents in delaware , and probably more than a third of them have some kind of a disease that might be able to be benefited by embryonic stem cell research .  that is true of the figures in the country .  we have 110 million people who have illnesses out of the 290 million people who are living here .  they have visited my office .  they have visited your offices .  there is not a person in this room who has not had many , many visits by people who have very , very serious needs , whose lives are going to be shortened .  i am all for the first bill we debated today because i think it might help somewhat , but i have also looked at some statistics and i have come to realize that of the 15 leading diseases , adult stem cells can not do anything about 14 of them and can do a only little bit about heart diseases as they deal with only blood diseases in terms of what they can do .  embryonic stem cell research has the ability , perhaps , to do much more than that .  people are going to get up and they are going to say , well , it has n't done anything yet .  they were only discovered about 6 1/2 years ago .  if you read the vast body of research in the united states of america on this subject by people who are truly knowledgeable , you are going to learn there is more potential here than anything that has ever happened in medicine in the history of the united states of america .  congress should never , ever turn its back on this opportunity .  how are we going to get there ?  how are we going to do embryonic stem cell research ?  i do not have time to go through the whole in vitro fertilization process except to say that we create embryos in that particular process .  they are then frozen .  they are generally used and well used , the 400 , 000 embryos which are out there , to help give birth to people who might not otherwise be able to have a child .  but at the end of the process , a decision is made by the individuals that may be involved with that .  if the decision is they no longer want that particular embryo , they may do a variety of things with it .  they may , as has been discussed here , give it up for adoption .  they may decide to have it discarded as hospital waste .  that is where the vast , almost all of them actually go as hospital waste .  we want to give them the opportunity to say , within that embryo there are stem cells which could help other people live better lives and give them the opportunity to be able , instead of having it put in a bag for hospital waste , sitting at that table , to be put over here , and the state to be able to do the research .  that is what we need to do .  we need to be able to develop that as rapidly as we possibly can for the benefit of all mankind .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act .  i have been in public office for over 30 years and throughout my career , i -- just like all of you -- have had the opportunity to change and improve public policy so this country may continue to flourish on the principles it was founded .  and the 820 , 000 people i represent in the state of delaware are a constant reminder to me of this responsibility .  i am their voice in the congress of the united states .  some of you may be wondering why i have become so interested and involved in embryonic stem cell research .  and frankly , the answer is simple -- those 800 , 000 constituents .  we estimated that about one-half of all visits to my office are about health care and about one-half of those visits are by delawareans who are suffering themselves or whose family members are suffering -- from juvenile diabetes , alzheimer 's , cancer , parkinson 's , hiv and hosts of other dredge diseases .  year by year the groups would grow in number and soon we would have to get bigger rooms for our meetings .  in the early years we would discuss the necessity of funding the national institutes of health , and i was proud to be able to support newt gingrich and the republican party 's drive to double funding for the nih .  and that funding has gone toward the basic science needed to find cures and treatments to our most debilitating diseases .  but in the past few years , the number one topic on these groups ' minds was embryonic stem cell research .  one little girl stands out in mind .  i met her a few months ago at an event back in delaware .  olivia was two months old when she was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes .  her parents were first time parents so it is no wonder that the practice of testing her blood sugar and giving her insulin shots was extremely heartbreaking .  olivia is now 6 and has never known life without diabetes .  she is the person we are fighting for on the floor today .  she is one of 110 million people who are suffering that may be helped by stem cell research .  i remember very clearly the difficult decision president bush made on august 9 , 2001 and i know how careful he was to balance the needs of science with his own moral concerns .  at the time , the compromise -- to allow federal funding for research on embryonic stem cells lines that had already been derived -- seemed quite reasonable .  but as we know , unfortunately , the number of lines eligible for research -- once as high as 78 -- is now only at 22 , with the nih saying the number of lines will never get above 23 .  so when diana degette and i began discussing how to expand the president 's policy in an ethical manner , i went right back to the speech he gave to the nation in 2001 .  we wanted to be as consistent as possible with the ethics he laid out in his speech as we worked to update the policy .  the legislation we are going to vote on today , h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act , which has the backing of the medical groups , the scientists , the research universities and the patient advocacy groups , mirrors the president 's ethical requirements .  i will read them to you and ask that you think about them very closely : ( 1 ) embryos used to derive stem cells were originally created for fertility treatment purposes and are in excess of clinical need ; ( 2 ) the individuals seeking fertility treatments for whom the embryos were created have determined that the embryos will not be implanted in a woman and will otherwise be discarded ; and , ( 3 ) the individuals for whom the embryos were created have provided written consent for embryo donation and without receiving financial inducement .  you may ask what is different -- we simply lift the arbitrary august 9 , 2001 date .  it is also critical that we are clear about what this legislation does not do : ( 1 ) no federal funding for the destruction of embryos or human life .  this is prohibited by law .  ( 2 ) no federal funding for the creation of embryos for research .  under our legislation it is up to the couple to decide what should happen to their embryos .  embryos can be adopted or donated ; embryos can be frozen for future family building ; embryos can be discarded .  after that initial decision is made , and if a couple decides to discard the embryos , our legislation would allow those couples to make a second choice -- do they want to donate them to research ?  an embryo or blastocyst is about 250 cells and the inner cell mass is about 100 cells and that is where the stem cells come from .  they are created in a petri dish , are about 5 days old and are the size of a pine head .  of the 400 , 000 frozen embryos in in vitro fertilization clinics throughout the u.s. , about 2 percent are discarded annually -- that is about 8 , 000 -- 11 , 000 embryos that could be slated for research .  allowing the option of donating these excess embryos to research is similar to donating organs for organ transplantation in order to save or improve the quality of another person 's life .  the bottom line is when a couple has decided to discard their excess embryos they are either going to be discarded as medical waste or they can be donated for research .  throughout this debate you will hear about adult stem cells and more about umbilical cord cells and how these types of cells are sufficient for scientists .  this is simply not true .  umbilical cord cells are adult stem cells and they are limited .  adult and umbilical cord cells are already differentiated into the types of cells they are , they are difficult to harvest and grow and they do not exist for every tissue type .  on the other hand , embryonic stem cells are `` master cells '' -- they have the potential to grow into any type of cell in the body , they are easier to identify , isolate , purify and grow and they are capable of continual reproduction .  listen to what the nih has to say on this topic : human embryonic stem cells are thought to have much greater developmental potential than adult stem cells .  this means that embryonic stem cells may be pluripotent -- that is , able to give rise to cells found in all tissues of the embryo except for germ cells rather than being merely multipotent -- restricted to specific subpopulations of cell types , as adult stem cells are thought to be .  in 2003 , 1.6 million people died of heart disease , cancer , diabetes , alzheimer 's , kidney disease , liver disease and parkinson 's .  of the 15 leading causes of death , adult stem cell research only addresses one .  adult stem cells have been around since the 1960s .  embryonic stem cells were only isolated in 1998 .  we must explore research on all types of stem cells , but the reality is the only policy that is restricted is the federal embryonic stem cell policy .  the nih is the right place to oversee this research because it can regulate the ethics , it provides for scientific collaboration and peer review and promotes publication so all breakthroughs are reported and all scientists have access to the latest research discoveries .  without nih oversight there are no guidelines as to how this research should be conducted .  the united states has always been the premier leader in biomedical research in our country and around the world .  as science continues to move rapidly forward , we need to continue to lead the way but we are not .  why should we waste one more year , one more day , forcing millions to suffer because of a policy that is outdated and unworkable .  does this congress really want to look back 10 years from now and say that we were the ones holding the treatments up ?  or do we want to be the congress that says , we back science , we want research to flourish and we played a small role in making that happen .  support h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act and accelerate hope .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of our time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank both the republican and democratic leadership for allowing this to take place here today .  sometimes there are issues of such critical social importance that it is only right that the congress of the united states do this in the open , and they did that and for that we should all be very appreciative .  i just want to leave my colleagues with some closing thoughts , perhaps some of the things i started with .  there are 110 million people just in the united states of america out of 290 million who have some sort of illness that potentially could be helped by the use of embryonic stem cells .  most of those will never be helped by the use of adult stem cells .  we know that anything other than just the use of adult stem cells in blood tissues has been experimental at best and probably will never work .  i would encourage everyone to use their conscience as they vote today , to think about their constituents at home .  we talk about life , and i do not necessarily want to get into that argument back and forth , but the bottom line is there are a lot of lives that are being foreshortened in the united states of america and across the world that perhaps could be lived out to their fullest if that opportunity was given to the individuals involved .  remember that this research is going on at the private sector level .  it is also going on at the state level .  it is even going on to a degree at the federal level .  there has been $ 60 million spent over 3 years on this research at the federal level , and about $ 625 million has been spent on adult stem cells at the federal level .  so the research is going on at the time .  our ethic standards in this bill , and if you read it , it is only 3 pages long , exceed any ethical standards that have ever existed before including what the president had before .  the national institutes of health said : `` human embryonic stem cells are thought to have much greater developmental potential than adult stem cells .  this means that embryonic stem cells may be pluripotent , that is , able to give rise to cells found in all tissues of the embryo except for germ cells rather than being merely multipotent , restricted to specific subpopulations of cell types , as adult stem cells are thought to be. '' that is where the science is .  you can argue all you want , but if you do any extensive reading on this , that is where the science is .  these are the stem cells which can make a difference , the embryonic stem cells .  there are discussions of dollars .  there are no dollars used directly in the destruction of embryos at an in vitro fertilization clinic .  there are dollars used in the research ultimately .  but let us look at that .  let us consider what that is all about .  at the end , when those who have created the embryo make the decision that they no longer need or want that particular embryo , the physician has to make a decision about what to do with it .  there are some options there .  not a lot of options .  one of them is to give that particular embryo up for adoption .  some people do not choose to do that .  there have only been fewer than 100 so far .  and i think that is wonderful .  i think that option should be offered .  some people may make other decisions , but basically it will be one of two decisions if this legislation passes .  one is to put it into hospital waste , warm it up to room temperature , thereby destroying it at that point and doing it that way , or to be giving it up for research .  and my judgment is if that is a decision , why are we not helping the 110 million people out there who need help , as opposed to allowing this to go to hospital waste because it will happen anyhow .  if you do not like that , you better go out and lobby against what they are doing in in vitro fertilization clinics , and i do not think that we want to do that .  there are about 400 , 000 of these embryos .  that is probably a low estimate today .  that is an estimate of about 3 years ago .  about 2 percent are given up a year .  that is 8 , 000 .  the numbers that are more limited than that are just wrong .  a lot of people now , if this passes , are going to be offered the opportunity to give up the embryo for research instead of hospital waste , and they are going to make that decision , and we will get the kind of work that we need .  i would just close by saying that 14 out of the 15 diseases that are most likely to kill people in the world are not ever going to be helped by adult stem cells .  we need to do this .  with your vote today you can provide hope to tens of millions of americans and many more around the world .  support h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , as we debate this proposal , we can not ignore the fact that every human life begins as a human embryo .  sadly , passage of this bill will put the government and taxpayers in the position of sanctioning and funding the destruction of that human life .  now , we all feel strongly about the need for aggressive and advanced research to cure and combat the myriad of diseases that prematurely take the lives of our friends and our family members and our fellow citizens .  when we lost my father to cancer , our family certainly wished that medical breakthroughs had come sooner .  that is why i am so supportive of the rapid progress being made in the fields of adult and umbilical cord stem cell research .  cord blood stem cells have already been used to treat patients , we have been hearing , for up to 67 diseases , and it is my understanding they have the potential to become any kind of cell , similar to what embryonic stem cells do .  while i recognize that many proponents of this bill offer their support with good intentions , in this case we do have clear alternatives , and i would strongly urge my colleagues to support adult and umbilical and reject this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today to voice my support for the stem cell therapeutics and research act of 2005 .  as many of my colleagues have discussed , this bill provides federal support to help cord blood banks collect and maintain new cord blood units .  it 's important to acknowledge that this bill also reaffirms congress 's commitment to the national bone marrow donor registry .  established in 1986 , the national registry has facilitated more than 21 , 000 lifesaving transplants involving cord blood , peripheral blood , and bone marrow .  although we are discussing cord blood for the first time today , the national marrow donor program ( nmdp ) , which has operated the national registry since its inception , has already incorporated cord blood into the registry to help patients , especially minority patients whose genetic diversity often makes it difficult to find a suitably matched adult volunteer donor .  through the nmdp today , individuals in need of a cord blood transplant already have access to the largest listing of cord blood units in the united states -- more than 42 , 000 units .  in addition , the nmdp lists more than 9 million i am particularly proud of the work of the nmdp , especially its strong support for cord blood and because of its partnership with the st .  louis cord blood bank .  the st .  louis cord blood bank is the cornerstone of an active clinical stem cell transplantation and research program at cardinal glennon children 's hospital and st .  louis university .  along with the st .  louis cord blood bank , the nmdp partners with 14 of the 20 u.s. public cord blood banks .  another 3 are in the process of becoming partners .  together , the nmdp and these cord blood banks are working to increase the national inventory of cord blood available for transplants and research .  their work helps thousands of americans with life-threatening diseases , such as sickle cell anemia .  it is essential that the existing integrated program continue to be able to operate as it does today .  physicians and patients must be able to search for and obtain support from a single national registry that includes cord blood , peripheral blood , and bone marrow .  physicians should not have to waste time searching multiple cord blood banks and adult donor registries or having to coordinate the further testing and delivery of units .  searching is not the only function that must be integrated .  physicians need to be confident that the results of their searches allow them to truly compare cord blood units and adult donor information .  thus , the cord blood community should work with the national program to establish criteria and standards to ensure consistency of the information that is part of the registry .  finally , it is important that all patients , not just those who receive a bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplants , receive the patient advocacy and educational services that the nmdp provides to all the patients it assists .  the nmdp already provides physicians and their patients with this type of support .  this bill is a step in the right direction because it builds upon the existing registry .  we must be careful not to waste scarce federal dollars by duplicating what is already working well .  therefore , i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of h.r. 2520 , which provides for an integrated national program .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 810 .  i commend my colleague , the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  , for her leadership on this issue .  stem cell research is not about abortion .  stem cell research is not about human cloning .  we are talking about finding cures for alzheimer 's , paralysis , parkinson 's , and other diseases .  we are talking about improving the lives of countless numbers of people in this country .  that is what stem cell research is about .  we are talking about putting american health care and researchers in the best position to finding the cures for today 's diseases tomorrow and to preventing the diseases of tomorrow today .  this spring , i joined my colleague , the gentleman from new york ( mr. israel )  , for a congressional roundtable on stem cells and on the biotech industry .  doctors , researchers , and scientists spoke about how the president 's strict limits on stem cell research is prohibiting them from conducting the level of research that they would like to do .  i agree , but who is missing out the most are the 650 , 000 people we represent and the potential this research holds .  american medical research has extended lives through immunization , treatments , and innovations .  from eradicating polio to advances in diabetes , american research has been on the forefront .  but there is still so much more that can be done and much more potential that exists .  i commend my colleagues again for this bill being on the floor , and i support it wholeheartedly .  mr. speaker , a family invests their embryos .  they are not going to save them for 1 , 000 years .  some of those embryos cryogenically deteriorate so they are going to discard those embryos .  others are just thrown down the toilet because someone does not want them anymore .  those are the embryos that we can use for stem cell research , only the ones that are going to be thrown away .  if there are 400 , 000 , then we will use 400 , 000 .  if there are only 10 , we will use 10 unless they can be adopted , which i also support in this bill .  people say that there has been no research .  if you take a look in animals , they have actually saved spinal cords in animals , in heart , in alzheimer 's , but they just have not done it in humans .  there is potential , both for adult and embryonic stem cell .  i have been here 15 years and i am 100 percent prolife , 100 percent .  this is an issue of life to me .  i had a 6-year-old in the committee that said , duke , you 're the only person who can save my life .  do you have a child with diabetes ?  do you have a child with other diseases that could be prevented ?  then you would support this .  i am for life and i am for the quality of life , but i do not want another 6-year-old to die .  i opposed the california bill .  it went too far .  i do not support cloning , but i want to save life .  we are this close to stopping juvenile diabetes .  there are other embryos that are tainted so bad that you would not implant those and they want to study those so that they can stop those childhood diseases .  but you can not look a child in the eye when the only chance they have to live is this research .  mr. speaker , most of my colleagues that support this bill are from the pro-choice field .  i come at it from the pro-life section .  a lot of times i disagree with my colleagues because i think in some cases they would go further , and a fact that many people will not take under their wing is that many of these stem cells are going to be thrown away , either cryogenically they deteriorate and they throw them away , or a woman says `` i do n't want to keep them for 1 , 000 years '' and they discard them .  they literally throw them in the toilet .  now we can save life .  they say there is no good to be done .  animal studies have shown that work with the spinal cord , heart and others have been successful .  we have not done it on humans .  if you take a look at some of the blood diseases with bone marrow used , that is stem cell .  and we have hope in the future .  i met a young man that had aids at nih , and he only thought about dying .  he said , `` duke , all i need is hope to survive. '' this gives that hope , and i think it has promise .  mr. speaker , let me begin by joining the various members of this institution who will speak today and who will urge the passage of both of these bills .  i certainly can not speak with the particular passion of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui )  who has been touched by this issue , but this is a very good day for the house of representatives .  it is a very good day , because we have managed to reach across the partisan divides , i believe twice today , or we will manage to reach across the partisan divide , i believe twice today , to pass bills that are good for the american people and good for countless numbers of americans who need this research .  i want to say something about the cord blood bill in particular .  i have had the honor for 2 years of working with the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  on this bill , and i am a democratic sponsor on it ; and i want to thank him for his good work .  this bill will make an enormous difference to the african americans around this country who often struggle with blood matches .  cord bloods do not require a blood match .  the young man that we saw on the cannon terrace yesterday who suffered from sickle cell anemia whose life has been permanently transformed by cord blood cell technology speaks to the power of this bill .  we talk a great deal about health care disparities , and we ought to talk about health care disparities in this country ; but rather than talk , this bill acts .  it actually provides relief for a group of people who otherwise would not have seen it .  but i want to talk for just a moment about the concept of principled difference , because i think it is very much illustrated today .  mr. speaker , the reason that this cord blood bill made it to the floor is in large measure because rather than digging in in opposition to stem cell opposition , as strongly as the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  feels about this issue , rather than digging in in opposition , the gentleman worked with the scientific community , he worked across the aisle to try to find another approach .  and as circumstance has it , both of these approaches are before us today .  if we would somehow as an institution learn from his example , if we figured out how , rather than digging in and deciding how much we disagree with each other , what other ways exist , what ways can we find to work together , we would not have a 34 percent approval rating as an institution .  the final point that i will make is that i firmly believe that we have all of our genius and all of our brilliance as a scientific and medical community for a very good reason .  i think that we are meant to use it .  i am hopeful that all of the technological advances that have happened in the last several years , with cord blood cells and with stem cells , can make a significant difference .  so to all the members of this institution , i simply urge them and encourage them to vote for both of these bills but , even more importantly , to accept this as an example of what happens when democrats and republicans find intelligent common ground .  there will be people who will benefit from this , and i do not think it is going too far to say that lives will be saved because of these two bills .  so i thank the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  for his good work and , again , i am honored to be the lead democratic sponsor of the cord blood bill .  mr. speaker , we need to remember that embryonic stem cell research is legal .  in the absence of the federal government , the states are already taking the lead .  california is at the forefront of establishing a robust embryonic stem cell research program .  new jersey has followed suit , and seven other states are in the process of doing so .  we do not want our stem cell research policies left to the vagaries of state electoral politics .  the federal government in general , and nih in particular , must be involved .  the less nih is involved with its time-tested methods and procedures , the less we are assured of good ethical guidelines and scientific methods will be followed .  instead , we will have more and more individual states attempting to set up their own regulatory schemes , something they may or may not be equipped to do .  opponents argue that it is the product of a utilitarian world view , that somehow this is a zero-sum game , if the members will , in which life is taken in order to give life .  i think the strictures that are established by h.r. 810 negate that argument .  under this bill , federal research will proceed using those embryos not used in fertility clinics , embryos voluntarily given that would otherwise be destroyed , that is , embryos that held the promise of life but are certain not to fulfill that promise .  what we are doing is extending the potential life where otherwise there would be none .  i urge passage of h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i do not know why this debate has to be either/or , either we are going to cure sickle cell anemia or we have the potential to cure type 1 diabetes .  every single american who suffers from a terrible disease should have the right to a cure .  now , this bill that we are debating right now , it is a fine bill .  i support this bill .  i think cord blood research is important .  like adult stem cells , umbilical cord stem cells have proven to be a source of hematopoietic stem cells .  those are the ones that are the blood-forming stem cells that have been used for about a decade to treat blood diseases like leukemia and lymphoma .  that is great .  but it is not either that or h.r. 810 , because unlike human embryonic stem cells , stem cells from umbilical cord blood can not continually reproduce themselves .  instead of proliferating , they quickly evolve into specialized cells .  that is why they have not proven to be useful in some of the early studies .  now , the opponents of h.r. 810 say , well , embryonic stem cells have not been used to cure any disease .  that is because we are in the very promising early stages of that research .  and the adult stem cells have been used in their narrow milieu to cure diseases and to help with diseases that are blood specific .  mr. speaker , i am here to say that there is no , no scientific evidence today that will show that the cord blood or the adult stem cells will cure alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , type 1 diabetes , or the multitude of other diseases that are not blood based .  now , some of the opponents of h.r. 810 say , well , scientific studies have shown adult stem cells to be pluripotent .  number one , their argument , their argument is that embryonic stem cells have not shown clinical application .  guess what ?  neither have adult stem cells been shown clinically to be pluripotent .  furthermore , the studies where there were some indications of that were not peer reviewed and , frankly , are rejected by the scientific community .  here is a chart .  this chart shows exactly what embryonic and adult stem cells are good for and , frankly , they are good for different things .  so let us not muddle the science .  if people do not want to do embryonic stem cell research , they can look in the eye of our colleague , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. langevin )  and others and say to them , we do not want to do the research that could cure your disease , and i challenge them to do that .  in conclusion , curt civin , m.d. , who is a doctor at johns hopkins university school of medicine and a researcher , says `` as a physician-scientist who has done research involving umbilical cord stem cells for over 20 years , i am frequently surprised by the thought from nonscientists that core blood stem cells may provide an alternative to embryonic stem cells for research .  this is simply wrong. '' and it is wrong to say either/or .  that is why we should vote `` yes '' on this bill and h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , before yielding to the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. lowey )  , i would just yield a minute to myself to respond to a couple of comments .  first of all , there is a misconception here .  under the castle/degette bill , no public funds are used for embryo destruction .  current law precludes that and we keep that under our bill .  secondly , we are not spending $ 60 million through the nih through embryonic stem cell research .  last year it was really $ 25 million , and the reason is because the president 's policy , issued in august of 2001 , has not worked .  instead of 80 or 90 stem cell lines , we only had around 19 to 22 stem cell lines .  and of those lines , all of them were contaminated with mouse `` feeder '' cells , and many of them were not available to researchers here in country .  that is why we have to ethically expand embryonic stem cell research .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. speaker , i want to clarify something .  i am actually not sure that those who oppose this bill understand what this bill really does .  in 1995 , two members of congress , mr. dickey and the gentleman from mississippi ( mr. wicker )  , inserted language in the appropriations bill , which is there every year and has been there every year i have been in congress , and it says : `` no federal funds shall be used to create or destroy embryos. '' now , those on the other side of this debate say they do not think federal funds should be used for this research , even though by their own admission the majority of americans support this research .  and so here is what this bill does , and maybe once i explain it , everyone will want to vote for it .  what it says is , people who go to in vitro fertilization clinics , there are leftover embryos as part of the process .  they can decide one of two things : number one , do they want to not discard the embryos and either donate them to other couples , and they can be these snowflake children , or to store them in a freezer ?  or the donors can decide if they want to throw them away .  or do they want to donate them to science ?  it is their decision with informed consent .  now , if they decide to donate them , then what would happen would be the embryos would go to a clinic where a stem cell line would be developed from the embryo with private funds .  no federal funds .  the only federal funds used under the castle/degette bill are federal funds to then develop those embryonic stem cell lines .  just as the president 's executive order in august of 2001 allowed stem cell lines to be researched with federal funding , but he limited those lines , we are allowing more of those lines .  so no embryos will be destroyed with federal funds .  i hope that clarifies the situation .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , i just want to say , if people want to donate their embryos to another couple for adoption , our bill allows that .  but our bill also allows people who do not want to give their embryos for adoption to donate them for science , so the children who are alive today can be cured .  i assume no one on the other side of this issue would want to force everybody to give up their embryos for adoption , because clearly that would be limiting the choice that people have .  mr. speaker , i have no further speakers , and i am intending to reserve the rest of my time for closing .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , first i would like to give my heartfelt thanks to my partner , the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  , our bipartisan whip team , the 201 cosponsors of this bill , and so many others who spoke today from the bottom of their hearts .  more than 100 years ago , justice oliver wendell holmes recognized that we are living in an increasingly complex world and that `` the chief worth of civilization is just that it makes the means of living more complex. '' this world , he says , `` calls for great and combined intellectual efforts instead of simple , uncoordinated ones. '' the truth of justice holmes ' words in today 's complex world is best seen in the state of scientific research .  we are on the verge of breakthroughs that will cure diseases that affect tens of millions of americans .  yet some want to turn away from this potential , to refuse to even acknowledge its existence , simply because they do not understand the complexity of this issue .  this refusal is slowing the process of ethical science and , worse , delaying advancements that could cure diseases that affect patients and families around the world .  our constituents want more from us .  they want their elected officials to thoughtfully examine tough issues like embryonic stem cell research , and create policies that address both practical and ethical challenges .  they also expect us to consider these issues not as democrats or as republicans , not as pro-life or pro-choice , but as people with family members and friends whose lives could be made better or even saved by our decisions .  passing h.r. 810 will allow the federal government to enable scientists , not politicians , to determine whether embryonic stem cell research will lead to cures for diseases that now plague us , and it will do so while establishing the clear and strict ethical guidelines that are absent today .  in 2001 , the president issued his executive order establishing the current embryonic stem cell research policy in an attempt to balance bioethics and science .  in the last 4 years , it has become clear that the policy has failed on both counts .  research has been stymied in this country , going into private hands and offshore .  research moves ahead , but not with the resources and coordination of the national institutes of health and without clear ethical standards .  i recognize that new science creates new moral dilemmas .  that is why our bill sets explicit controls on how stem cell lines can be created .  it gives another option for embryos created for in vitro fertilization , embryos created in petri dishes , that would otherwise be destroyed so that they can be used to potentially save or extend lives .  it gives the patients for whom the embryos are created the decision on how they will be used : as now , freezing for possible future use ; discarding them as medical waste or donating them to other couples for implantation ; and if this bill passes , another option , donating them for critical research that could save millions of lives of people who are already born .  here is why we need to pass this bill .  these are two young brothers from denver , colorado .  wyatt and noah forman .  both of these boys have type 1 diabetes , and both of them have been diagnosed since they were 2. a couple of months ago , little noah had convulsions in the middle of the night from low blood sugar .  his parents thought they would lose him , and now they can not sleep at night .  without a cure , wyatt and noah face possible complications ranging from a heart attack to kidney failure or even blindness as they grow up .  how can we tell these boys , these two boys and millions of others , that we would rather throw the embryonic stem cells that could provide them a cure than to allow them to be donated for science ?  how can we tell our colleagues , the gentleman from rhode island ( mr. langevin )  and the gentleman from illinois ( mr. evans )  , our mothers with alzheimer 's , our brothers with lou gehrig 's disease , the millions of americans who are praying for a cure and for whom embryonic stem cell research may hold the key , sorry , the federal government is opting out ?  let us not let 1 more year , 1 more month , or 1 more day go by without acting .  let us reclaim the federal government 's role as the leader in ethical basic research .  let us give those whom we are sworn to represent hope .  let us pass h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i am proud to stand on the house floor today to speak in favor of the stem cell research enhancement act , legislation which will bring hope to millions of people suffering from disease in this nation .  i want to thank congresswoman degette and congressman castle for their tireless work in bringing this bill to the house floor for a vote .  the discovery of embryonic stem cells is a major scientific breakthrough .  embryonic stem cells have the potential to form any cell type in the human body .  this could have profound implications for diseases such as alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , various forms of brain and spinal cord disorders , diabetes , and many types of cancer .  according to the coalition for the advancement of medical research , there are at least 58 diseases which could potentially be cured through stem cell research .  that is why more than 200 major patient groups , scientists , and medical research groups and 80 nobel laureates support the stem cell research enhancement act .  they know that this legislation will give us a chance to find cures to diseases affecting 100 million americans .  i want to make clear that i oppose reproductive cloning , as we all do .  i have voted against it in the past .  however , that is vastly different from stem cell research and as an ovarian cancer survivor , i am not going to stand in the way of science .  permitting peer-reviewed federal funds to be used for this research , combined with public oversight of these activities , is our best assurance that research will be of the highest quality and performed with the greatest dignity and moral responsibility .  the policy president bush announced in august 2001 has limited access to stem cell lines and has stalled scientific progress .  as a cancer survivor , i know the desperation these families feel as they wait for a cure .  this congress must not stand in the way of that progress .  we have an opportunity to change the lives of millions , and i hope we take it .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the distinguished minority whip yielding to me .  the house will convene on monday at 12 : 30 p.m .  for morning hour and 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on these measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on tuesday and the balance of the week , the house will consider several bills under a rule : h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 ; h.r. 2419 , the energy and water development appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 ; and h.r. 1815 , the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2006 .  in addition , mr. speaker , we plan to consider the military quality of life appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 sometime later in the week .  while it is certainly subject to change , i would expect us to consider the stem cell bill on tuesday , followed on tuesday by the energy and water bill .  hopefully , we could finish that bill by tuesday night and start the dod authorization bill on wednesday and thursday , if necessary , and complete the week with the military quality of life appropriations bill .  we are working with your side on a unanimous-consent request to bring the bill up even without a rule .  hopefully , we can agree to a lengthy debate .  this issue is so important for an up-and-down vote .  hopefully , we could have a full and open debate on this very important issue .  and it will be hopefully done under a unanimous-consent request that will be worked out with your side , probably on monday .  in working with the minority leader 's office and your office , there have been requests to accommodate some members and start this debate early in the afternoon instead of early in the morning .  i would , along with the unanimous-consent request , anticipate us working out an agreeable time , and i would expect after discussions already being held that we would anticipate the debate to start on that bill somewhere early in the afternoon and running for the length of time agreed to by both sides .  we do have a very , very full schedule over the next few weeks .  as the gentleman knows and most of the members know , the appropriations committee is trying their best to get all the appropriations bills out of the house before the july 4 break , so there is very little time between now and the fourth of july to do other bills .  we are considering the head start bill , but we do not have any immediate plans to consider the head start bill reauthorization and hope that we can get to it as soon as possible .  as the gentleman knows , this house passed the highway bill some weeks ago and the senate just finished the highway bill in their chamber .  we will probably have to consider some type of short-term extension next week , hopefully an agreed-to extension bill .  and if the senate requests a conference next week , i believe that the speaker will be prepared to appoint house conferees next week .  mr. speaker , i would just say that the president has been criticized for not vetoing any bills over the last 4 1/2 years , but it has become a tradition around here to include the president as we do legislation through the house and the senate and therefore working out any of our differences so that he would not have to veto a bill , and i do not see that the highway bill is any different than anything else we have been doing for the last 4 1/2 years .  so he is obviously a major player in this process .  the house , as the gentleman says , has expressed itself at a number .  we think the president will sign the bill .  the senate has chosen to do otherwise .  hopefully , we can work this out in the conference committee so that the president will not have to mar his record by vetoing a bill .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's yielding to me .  i would just point out to the gentleman that in the good old days that he refers to , yes , this house had a great reputation for wanting to spend more money , and those days have changed in that the president is adamant about spending and spending the right amount of money to do the job and the house has concurred in that many times and have voted in the house .  and it has been a pleasure to work with the president to hold down spending and make sure that every dollar is spent properly .  which ag bill ?  he signed the bill .  mr. speaker , the issue of human cloning and embryonic stem cell research cuts to the very core of politics .  and today the house will hear passionate arguments , essentially about the nature and value of human life .  now , that debate will be , among other things , controversial , because the proponents of embryo destruction in the name of progress believe it is not the embryo destruction its opponents oppose , but rather progress itself .  but it is not so , and the bill before us now , the stem cell therapeutic and research act proves it .  this bill , which provides for federal funding of research using adult stem cells which have , unlike embryonic stem cells , proven medical benefits in treating more than 60 separate diseases , will pass with the overwhelming support of both sides of this debate .  now , this bill , sponsored by the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  will , for the first time , provide for taxpayer-funded research on well-developed stem cells from umbilical cords , expand federal funding in bone marrow stem cell research , and provide for the development of a national stem cell therapy database for medical practitioners and researchers .  this is what progress is , mr. speaker , concrete , definable and based on fact , rather than speculation or a false sense of hope .  the best one can say about embryonic stem cell research is that it is a scientific exploration into the potential benefits of killing human beings .  proponents of medical research on destroyed human embryos would justify admittedly unfortunate means with the potential ends of medical breakthroughs down the line .  but the deliberate destruction of unique , living self-integrated human persons is not some incidental tangent of embryonic stem cell research .  it is the essence of the experiment .  kill some in hopes of saving others .  the choice , however well intentioned , is predicated upon a utilitarian view of human life that this bill shows our government need not take .  the smith bill will fund the only kind of stem cell research that has ever proven medically beneficial , while helping to develop new and exciting avenues of inquiry , all without harming a single human embryo .  this bill is progress , mr. speaker , and represents a perfect contrast to speculative and harmful methods of embryonic stem cell research .  this is the right stem cell bill , mr. speaker .  progress , even progress that pushes the envelope of medical knowledge , need not be controversial .  it need not divide us or force people of goodwill to devalue human life .  progress , in fact , is the opposite of such a choice .  and the smith bill unites the public and private sectors , both doctors and patients , and recognizes the inherent dignity and value of every human person .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i just have to respond to the comments by the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  .  she must be reading a different bill .  that is what this whole argument is about .  the gentlewoman says that no federal funds can go to destroying an embryo in order to have research .  she just said that .  that is what this whole bill does is to allow funding of embryonic stem cell research , and in order to do that research , you have to destroy the embryo .  in fact , if the gentlewoman would like , i would be willing to entertain a unanimous consent request that if , indeed , that does not happen in her bill , i will be glad to accept it and i will vote for the bill .  that is the whole notion of what is going on here .  it is not true to say that her bill does not allow federal funding for destruction of embryos .  mr. speaker , how much time remains on all sides ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i just wanted to point out that it has been said that there are 100 , 000 embryos available for research .  i guess they want to add another portion to their bill requiring parents to give their embryos up for research because at the present time there are only 2.8 percent of the parents that have allowed or have designated their embryos to be used for research .  that means there are only 11 , 000 available for this research .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , could i inquire as to the time on all sides ?  mr. speaker , could i inquire of the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  and the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  how many speakers they each have left ?  i have four , actually five , counting me .  mr. speaker , i only have one more speaker before i close .  so i yield , mr. speaker , 3 1/2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , who has been fighting for the culture of life his entire career .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , what we have before us today is not a debate as some have suggested between science and ideology , but between aspirations and actions .  both sides of this debate wish to ease human suffering .  so what divides us is not our ends , but the means to which we would resort to pursue those ends .  that is why the castle bill must be defeated , because while we are motivated by our aspirations , we are defined by our actions ; and the federal government simply can not sanction the actions authorized and funded by this legislation .  for all the arguments we have heard today , scientific , ethical , political , the debate for and against the castle bill , for and against the authorization of federal taxpayer dollars to fund medical research predicated on the destruction of human embryos is in essence a question of the level of respect and dignity our government chooses to grant human life in its earliest stage .  that embryos are human beings is not a political dispute .  an embryo is a person , a distinct , internally directed , self-integrating human organism .  an embryo has not merely the potential to become a human being .  it is one , and as such , just like a newborn or a toddler or a teenager , possesses instead the internally directed potential to grow into adulthood , to become in a sense what he or she already is .  an embryo is whole , just unfinished , just like the rest of us .  we were all at one time embryos ourselves , and so was abraham , so was mohammed , so was jesus of nazareth and shakespeare and beethoven and lincoln .  and so were the 79 children , those snowflake children , those snowflake children ages 6 and under who have been adopted .  do not throw them away .  adopt them .  these children have been adopted through different programs , but particularly the snowflake embryo adoption program , who under the castle bill and its predictable progeny might otherwise have been destroyed in a petri dish , these children that were embryos .  an embryo is nothing less than a human being , a fact both morally intuited and scientifically unquestioned .  what level of respect and dignity , then , should our government grant such little creatures , these tiny beings who our eyes suggest are not like us but who our hearts and minds know in fact are us ?  the castle bill is very clear , and though i oppose it , its clarity well serves both sides in this debate .  the castle bill says essentially that the potential medical and scientific progress represented by an embryo 's stem cells justifies , justifies taxpayer funding for the destruction of that embryo through the harvesting of the stem cells .  of course , it is not the hoped-for end of the castle bill that we oppose , nor necessarily , among some on this side of the aisle , even its destructive means , but instead the entitlement of those destructive means to federal tax dollars .  after all , human embryos are being harvested for medical research every day in this country .  we just do not think the government should be forcing the american people to pay for it , especially considering the discouraging track record of the kind of research the castle bill has in mind .  to date , mr. speaker , none , none , not one of the countless and extraordinarily well-endowed private embryo-cell-harvesting projects has yielded a single treatment for a single disease .  not one .  embryonic stem cell therapies which are by design definitely untherapeutic to the embryos have in fact proven to be similarly harmful to those patients the treatments were supposed to help .  harvested embryonic stem cells are typically rejected by the host patient and often form cancerous tumors as a byproduct of that rejection .  that is to say , mr. speaker , it does not work .  and , indeed , many embryonic stem cell experts concede that such research will not yield results for decades , if at all , if ever .  in truth , then , it is not the ends that would supposedly justify the grizzly means of the castle bill , but the mere aspiration to those ends .  on the other hand , better developed stem cells from the umbilical cords of newborn babies and the bone marrow of fully grown adults have led to treatments of no fewer than 67 separate diseases .  based on this successful track record , the biomedical industry is pouring its own money into adult stem cell research .  it is the smart investment .  in other words , mr. speaker , the castle bill would throw taxpayer money at the same unsuccessful research that companies with the financial motivation for developing such research are avoiding .  it just does not work .  indeed , one might say the stubborn advocacy of embryonic harvesting in the face of the overwhelming clinical evidence of its futility might be a genuine case of ideology trumping science .  but what if it did work , mr. speaker ?  what if all the utopian comments of the castle bill 's proponents were to come true ?  what then ?  what if we could be sure that government-funded destruction of human embryos could do all the things we are asked to believe ?  well , in that case , mr. speaker , we would still be right to oppose it because in the life of men and nations , some mistakes you can not undo .  some mistakes do not just come back and haunt you , they define you .  a decision by our government to sanction embryo harvesting here at the very dawn of the biotechnology age could come to own us , for the paltry research sum envisioned by the castle bill is but the first generation , the first drop of the deluge .  its offspring will ultimately include cloning , genetically engineered children , a black market of human body parts , and a global economy organized around the exploitation and hyper-ovulation of impoverished women and girls for their eggs .  if the mere aspiration of ends justify the means here , in our first ethical challenge of the biotechnology age , how could we hope for a higher standard the next time ?  which returns me to the irreducible question of this debate : what level of respect and dignity ought this government grant defenseless unburdensome human life at its earliest , most vulnerable stage ?  given the biological fact of a human embryo 's membership in the human family , given the technological necessity of embryonic destruction as a precondition of embryonic stem cell research , given the medical reality of embryonic stem cell research 's consistent therapeutic failure , given the moral catastrophe of means-justifying-the-ends morality , and given the physical revulsion people instinctively feel when considering the destruction of defenseless human life by scientists in lab coats ; given all these factors , the answer a proponent of taxpayer-funded embryonic stem cell harvesting and research must give is `` none. '' for if we afford the little embryos any shred of respect and dignity , we can not in good faith use taxpayer dollars to destroy them .  i wish there was another way , mr. speaker , but there is not .  it is just wrong , not as a matter of ideology or even fate , but as a matter of respect and dignity .  we are not asking anyone here to recognize the rights of human embryos , but the wrongs of human adults .  this is not about the embryo 's standing as a juridical person , but our standing as moral persons .  because the choice to protect a human embryo from federally funded destruction is not ultimately about the embryos , it is about us and our rejection of the treacherous notion that while all human lives are sacred , some are more sacred than others .  i heard it said here today , some are more sacred than others .  like our embryonic cousins , mr. speaker , our nation is whole but unfinished .  the issue is a test in which we are asked out of good and pure intentions just this once , just this tiny little bit , to let the ends justify the means , to let the noble aspirations justify ignoble actions .  in this test , in this vote , then , we have an opportunity today to speak truth to the power of biotechnology , to rise up against the prevailing winds of human excess and hold fast to the dignity of human life upon which all other worldly truths are based : to ensure our appetite for knowledge is checked by our knowledge of our appetites ; to stand up , as only america can , in the name of the least among us , whom we serve , and become the people we are .  i ask my colleagues , seize the opportunity and vote `` no . '' mr. speaker , in 1999 young tessa wick was diagnosed with juvenile diabetes .  she began the laborious process which changed her life and she dedicated herself to doing everything that she possibly could to ensure that no one would have to suffer as she has .  during that period of time , she has worked to raise large sums of money .  she has testified before the united states senate , and last friday her father told me that she said to him not a lot has been accomplished yet .  we have not yet found a cure .  and her father said to me that we need to do everything that we possibly can to ensure that we do find a cure .  we are all supportive of umbilical cord research , but i believe that it is proper for us to pursue embryonic stem cell research , mr. speaker .  in a week and a half , we mark the first anniversary of ronald reagan 's passing .  everyone knows how passionately nancy reagan feels about the need for us to pursue this research .  i believe it is the appropriate thing to do .  now , there are no guarantees .  we all know there are no guarantees at all , but passage of this legislation does provide an opportunity for hope , hope that we will be able to turn the corner on these debilitating diseases from which so many people suffer .  and so i hope very much that we can pursue a bipartisan approach to this important measure .  and while i am concerned that there is disagreement with the president of the united states , i hope that we will be able to , at the end of the day , work out a bipartisan agreement that will include the president of the united states in this effort .  mr. speaker , as an original cosponsor of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 , i rise in strong support of this legislation .  h.r. 810 is essential legislation that will expand opportunities for scientists to treat spinal cord injuries , multiple sclerosis , parkinson 's disease , alzheimer 's disease , diabetes , and other devastating diseases .  there are ethical concerns over the use of embryonic stem cells in research , and we should not treat stem cells as just another laboratory product .  we must strongly prohibit unethical practices , such as human cloning .  and we should not allow embryos to be bought and sold .  but it is important to recognize that , as part of the process of in vitro fertilization , many embryos are created that are never used and are slated to be destroyed .  with the stringent moral safeguards established by this legislation , including the required written consent of the donors , i believe we should permit the use of stem cells from these embryos .  the use of embryos for research that would otherwise be destroyed strikes a responsible balance between the ethical and medical values associated with stem cell research .  the current state of stem cell research suggests that there is significant progress to be made if we move forward in this area .  leading scientists have testified that adult stem cells and umbilical cord stem cells do not share the ability of embryonic stem cells to replicate all other cells in the human body .  if we do n't invest in stem cell research , millions of americans with some of the most debilitating diseases will not be able to avail themselves of the treatments or cures that might result .  in addition , if we fail to invest federal resources in embryonic stem cell research , the u.s. will lose its competitive advantage in this essential area of science .  the limited federal support for stem cell research is just one area of science in which the u.s. is falling behind .  last year china produced 160 , 000 more engineers than we did .  nearly 40 percent of u.s. jobs in science or technology requiring a ph.d .  are now filled by people born abroad -- that 's up from 25 percent in 1990 .  we now rank below 13 other countries -- including japan , germany , and south korea -- in the percentage of 24-year-olds with a college degree in a science or engineering field -- that 's down from third in the world 25 years ago .  mr. speaker , this legislation will help the u.s. to move forward on our moral imperative to perform stem cell research in an ethically responsible way .  i urge all of my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. brown )  for yielding time to me .  and i rise in support of h.r. 2520 , the stem cell therapeutic and research act of 2005 .  this act , combined with h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 , will go a long way towards helping millions of americans who suffer from debilitating health conditions .  i wholeheartedly support umbilical stem cell research , but also support embryonic stem cell research .  as anyone who suffers from diabetes , parkinson 's disease , als , or a host of other health problems knows , one possible treatment is the use of stem cells to help regrow the tissues affected by their ailments .  scientists have stated that embryonic stem cells provide the best opportunity for devising unique treatments of these serious diseases since , unlike adult stem cells , they may be induced to develop into any type of cell .  adult stem cells are also problematic , as they are difficult to identify , purify and grow , and simply may not exist for certain diseased tissues that need to be replaced .  please understand that i do not discount the promise of adult stem cell research or cord blood research , but i agree with the national institutes of health that we must carefully study all types of adult and embryonic stem cells .  in their words , `` given the enormous promise of stem cell therapies for so many devastating diseases , nih believes that it is important to simultaneously pursue all lines of research. '' our loved ones deserve science 's best hope for the future .  now , i want to say something .  this is not about cloning .  i oppose cloning of human beings .  this is about the use of embryonic stem cells which would have been discarded anyway .  i want to repeat that .  this is about the use of embryonic stem cells which would have been discarded anyway .  it has been estimated that there are currently 400 , 000 frozen ivf embryos , which would be destroyed if they are not donated for research .  i would never condone the donation of embryos to science without the informed , written consent of donors and strict regulations prohibiting financial remuneration for potential donors .  our nation 's scientific research must adhere to the highest ethical standards .  but it is important that we do embryonic stem cell research .  we are falling behind other countries , and this is not what ought to be happening .  president bush has limited federal funding of stem cell research to only those stem cell lines that existed prior to august of 2001 .  but unfortunately , only 22 cell lines are available for study , which prevents scientists from having access to important genetic cell diversity .  simply put , if it continues , that would not be ethical .  please support both bills .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this bill , which will expand funding for embryonic stem cell research , and i am proud to be an original cosponsor of it .  what i would like to say today is the following : scientists have informed us , the professional scientists in our country , not political scientists , but scientists , and what they have told us from their considerable work and research is that this issue represents hope .  it represents hope for the cure of diseases that plague so many of our people , from juvenile diabetes all the way to the other part of life , which is alzheimer 's , and so many diseases in between .  this congress and previous congresses have seen fit to double the funding of the national institutes of health .  i have always called them the national institutes of hope .  we are now on the threshold , we are now on the threshold of debating an issue that can bring hope to our people .  it is up to us to have an ethical standard in this debate .  that is why no human cloning is a part of the bill that i support .  why ?  because no one supports that .  the american people are decent and they want an ethical standard , but they also want their nation 's leaders to continue to give hope to them , hope for the cure of these diseases that cause so much human suffering .  we have a responsibility in terms of our compassion , in terms of the instruction that our nation 's scientists have given to us .  so i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  it is an ethical bill , and it is a bill that is all about hope .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this bill which will expand funding for embryonic stem cell research , and i 'm proud to be an original cosponsor of it .  under this bill embryonic stem cell lines will be eligible for federal funding only if the embryos used to derive stem cells were originally created for fertility treatment purposes and are in excess of clinical need .  today , there are thousands of surplus embryos from fertility treatments that will never be used and will likely be discarded .  we should allow parents who choose to donate these embryos for use in federally-funded stem cell research to do so .  my home-state of california recently approved a $ 3 billion ballot initiative to fund embryonic stem-cell experiments .  it is the largest state-supported scientific research program in the country .  this initiative places california at the forefront of the field and exceeds all current stem-cell projects in the united states .  but without additional federal funding , our scientific leadership is being transferred overseas .  where the leading-edge research is carried out matters a great deal .  any policy restricting federal funding for embryonic stem cell research threatens the long-term vitality of the u.s. economy , and most importantly denies millions of americans hope .  i urge all my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , today the house is considering h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 , which expands funding for embryonic stem cell research .  as an advocate of stem cell research , i 'm proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation because i believe that this critical research can lead to cures for type 1 diabetes , parkinson 's disease , alzheimer 's disease , paralysis caused by spinal cord injury , and other serious health problems .  over 3 , 000 people die every day in the united states from diseases that may some day be treatable as a result of stem cell research .  now is the time for congress and the administration to recognize that the current policy does not work .  in 2001 , president bush crafted a policy to allow limited federal support for some embryonic stem cell research .  four years later , however , it 's clear that his policy has hindered progress .  today , of the 78 stem cells lines approved for federal research , only 22 are available to researchers .  these 22 lines are not only contaminated but were also developed with outdated techniques .  under h.r. 810 , embryonic stem cell lines will be eligible only if embryos used to derive stem cells were originally created for fertility treatment purposes and are in excess of clinical need .  today , there are thousands of surplus embryos from fertility treatments that will never be used and will likely be discarded .  we should allow parents to donate these embryos for use in federally-funded stem cell research .  this november , my home-state of california approved a $ 3 billion ballot initiative supported by governor schwarzenegger to fund embryonic stem-cell experiments .  it is the largest state-supported scientific research program .  this initiative puts california at the forefront of the field and exceeds all current stem cell projects in the united states .  however , with the federal government on the sidelines , scientists are still reluctant to pursue stem cell research and the private sector is unwilling to invest in the field .  we are losing ground to the rest of the world .  as the washington post reported last friday ( may 20 , 2005 ) , south korea is leapfrogging ahead of us and is developing techniques proving that stem cell research is robust .  now , the public , researchers and industry are looking to congress for leadership .  stem cell research should not be about politics .  it should be about science , medicine and hope .  we have an opportunity to help end the suffering of millions of people with chronic or terminal diseases , and we should seize it .  stem cell research is not only critical to saving lives but it also stimulates our nation 's economy .  stem cell research is the next `` big thing '' in biotechnology after the human genome project .  long-term economic growth depends on productivity , productivity depends on technology , and technology ultimately depends on basic science , which is why any policy restricting federal funding for embryonic stem-cell research threatens the long-term health and vitality of the u.s. economy .  biotechnology is at a stage of development similar to where information technology was in the late 1980s -- ready to explode .  for our leadership in science and technological leadership , where innovative leading-edge research is carried out matters a great deal , but under the current policy we 're leaving the field even before the game has begun .  now the president has said he will veto this bill .  he may succeed in stifling stem cell research in our country , but he will not stop scientific progress .  it will occur elsewhere .  if the u.s. fails to embrace stem cell research , we will only slow progress in treating disease and cede our leading role as a technological leader .  the federal government should be in the business of encouraging and assisting research that can help save the lives of its citizens .  the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 accelerates scientific progress toward cures and treatments for a wide range of diseases while simultaneously instituting stronger ethical requirements on stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research .  i urge all my colleagues in the house to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act .  scientific and biomedical research and innovation has made our nation and our world a safer and healthier place .  advances in medicine have made virtually obsolete killer diseases like smallpox and polio , have increased life expectancy and improved the quality of life for people around the globe .  from roman times around 2000 years ago to 1900 life expectancy increased from 25 to 47 years of age .  however , because of important discoveries and advances in medicine and medical treatments , by the year 2000 life expectancy had increased to over 76 years of age .  the advances in medicine that resulted in this dramatic increase in life expectancy did not happen by accident .  they occurred as a result of visionary leadership in both the public and private sectors .  they occurred as a result of political will and public capital .  they occurred because of the private sector 's ability to convert government funded basic research into life-saving applications .  government funded basic research has and continues to serve as the foundation for the medical advances that have improved the health and quality of life for millions of people .  while the advances we have made in medicine in the last century have been both impressive and historic , we have a long way to go .  far too many people in our society suffer from debilitating diseases like parkinson 's , alzheimer 's and diabetes for which there are no cures .  the scientific community overwhelmingly believes that embryonic stem cell research holds the potential for medical advances and therapies that could make these and other diseases as obsolete as polio and small pox , and the national institutes of health have proposed an ethically sound policy to further this research .  i support federal funding for embryonic stem cell research because without it we run the risk of missing an historic opportunity to improve the lives of millions of i understand that many of the opponents of this legislation have moral qualms about using embryos for research .  but the embryos covered under this legislation would otherwise be discarded , so defeat of this legislation would do nothing to assuage moral difficulties surrounding destruction of embryos .  and defeat of this legislation would deny innocent victims of terrible diseases the opportunity of relief from their suffering and healing of their afflictions .  i support funding for this research because of the bright promise it holds to make life better and more productive for generations to come .  our north carolina values guide us to expand scientific and medical knowledge to enhance the health and well being of our families , neighbors and fellow citizens , and this research is key to that effort .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 810 because we need to support studying every kind of stem cell , from cord blood to adult to embryonic .  parkinson 's disease affects over 1 million americans , and i am one of them .  many people think that this is a disease that mostly affects older citizens .  that is not true .  i was diagnosed when i was in my mid-40s and michael j. fox , for example , was much younger than that .  parkinson 's does not keep me from doing the things that are important to my life and my work , but parkinson 's does affect me every day of my life .  there are good days and bad days , but there is still a need for research and for a cure .  parkinson 's has been said to be the most curable disease that is yet to be cured .  scientists believe a cure is on the horizon within the next 5 to 10 years .  they also believe that the advances in parkinson 's research will lead to accelerated cures for other illnesses such as alzheimer 's .  only embryonic stem cells hold enormous potential in order to treat these patients .  doctors treating patients with disease or injury may feel compelled to ease the suffering by taking every ethical avenue possible to find treatments and cures .  these doctors are among some of the most talented , dedicated , and well-respected doctors in this country .  today we decide whether to free these scientists or to hold them captive .  we will decide whether those suffering from parkinson 's , diabetes , spinal cord injuries , and others will have the greatest potential for cures , or whether they will just simply sit on the bench .  mr. speaker , i do not think that is the right message to send patients and doctors .  the american people agree .  poll after poll has shown that a wider majority of americans support ethical embryonic stem cell research .  the majority of bush supporters , for example , have voted to support this research .  over 90 patient organizations , scientific and medical societies , and universities also support this research .  some think this research has given false hope to patients like me .  but the science is moving forward and , with our help , will go even further .  this is really an exciting day for me , mr. speaker .  i appreciate everyone who has helped us .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , today we will hear some of our colleagues talk about the empty promise of embryonic stem cell research .  they will argue for research that not only requires the destruction of human life , but to date , has also not yielded a single therapy .  what we in congress should be advocating for is the continuing advancement of adult stem cell research , a true scientific success story , which has benefited thousands of americans already .  perhaps nowhere is this success more evident than in the advancement of cord-blood stem cells .  a rich source of stem cells , umbilical cords are already treating patients .  cord-blood stem cells have already been used to treat thousands of patients and more than 67 different diseases , including leukemia , sickle cell anemia and lymphoma .  the new york blood center 's national cord-blood program alone has provided transplants to over 1 , 500 gravely ill children and adults .  and there is great promise for the future .  studies have shown that these cells have the capacity to change into other cell types , giving them potential to treat debilitating conditions such as parkinson 's disease , spinal cord injury and diabetes .  the stem cell therapeutic and research act focuses government efforts on research with real promise , providing federal funding to increase the number of cord-blood units available to match and treat patients .  the bill also takes on the recommendations of the institute of medicine , providing a national network that would link all the cord-blood banks participating in an inventory program into a search system , allowing transplant physicians to search for cord-blood and bone marrow matches through a single-access point .  it would also promote additional stem cell research for units not suitable for transplant .  the stem cell therapeutic and research act advances true stem cell research , research with real promise , grounded in proven science ; and it is ethically sound .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important and timely legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank both gentlemen for yielding me this time .  the debate over embryonic stem cell research is important because there are no more important issues that we deal with in this chamber than when we debate life and death .  mr. speaker , as i stand here in this chamber today , i am a human being .  i am a man , an adult man .  sometime before i was a man , i was a teenager .  before that i was a child .  and sometime before i was a child , i was a toddler .  and before i was a toddler , i was an infant .  and sometime before i was an infant , i was a fetus .  and sometime before i was a fetus , i was an embryo .  i did not look like i do today , but it was me .  that embryo was me .  at some point in our history , every single person here was also an embryo .  the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , you were an embryo once .  the other gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the chairman of the committee ; yes , sir , you too were an embryo once .  the gentleman from delaware , the sponsor of this bill , you were an embryo once .  the gentlewoman from colorado , you too were an embryo once .  the gentleman from michigan , you were an embryo once .  now , we did not look like we do today , but it did not mean it was not you .  a human embryo is a member of the human family .  it has its own unique dna .  it is its own human entity .  it is unique .  it is irreplaceable , and it is a member of the species homo sapiens .  it is not just a bit of tissue .  it is not just , as some have suggested , a couple of cells in a petri dish .  it is human and it is alive .  it might not look like you or me , but there was a time when you and i looked exactly like that embryo .  today , we are debating embryonic stem cell research , a type of stem cell research in which a tiny member of the human family must die .  that is not just my opinion ; that is a scientific fact .  the gentlewoman from colorado would suggest that under this legislation federal funds would not be used to destroy human life .  that is simply false .  those who conduct human embryonic stem cell research must destroy human life to do so .  you can not conduct embryonic stem cell research without destroying human life , and that is wrong .  and it is certainly wrong to fund this unethical embryonic stem cell research using taxpayer money .  and that is precisely what this legislation would do .  it would use taxpayer money to fund research which destroys human life .  i urge a `` no '' vote .  mr. speaker , the seminal question that we address is , should americans be using their tax dollars to fund research that kills a living human embryo ?  my answer to that is an emphatic `` no. '' it is our duty to ensure that we spend our money on things that work , and there are no therapies in humans that have ever successfully been carried out using embryonic stem cells .  and that is really what this whole debate is about , paying for what works and paying for it in a way that is consistent with the morals of our taxpayers .  look , even the president and ceo of the juvenile diabetes research foundation , a group that is a strong supporter of destroying human embryos for research , he said , `` there have been more promising results in adult stem cells than there have been in embryonic stem cells. '' he predicted that their foundation would soon be spending more on adult cells research than embryonic research .  private organizations like these are choosing to use their research dollars on what works , adult stem cells research .  washington must also spend its money efficiently on what works , while representing the values of the taxpayer .  i urge a `` no '' vote on federal funding for killing living human embryos .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from maryland for yielding to me .  and i think particularly at this point i wanted to interject some thoughts .  first of all , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  , as he pointed out just a second ago , is a ph.d .  physiologist who taught years ago in medical school and taught physiology but , more importantly , has also taught the subject matter , which is difficult to understand .  i know .  i was there in medical school .  and that is the subject of embryology .  embryology .  medical students get maybe in a 4-year period of time , 6 months ' worth of embryology ; and of course , to hear my colleague from maryland explaining the embryologic process , it sort of takes me back to those days .  but i realize , of course , how difficult it is to understand for members of the body .  there are 435 of us , of course , and just a handful have ever taken any embryology .  there are no embryologists other than maybe the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  in the body ; so it is not an easy concept to understand .  but what i hear my colleague tell us , mr. speaker , is that it is possible to get stem cells from an embryo without destroying the embryo .  is it being done today ?  no , it is not being done today because , quite honestly , it is easier to scramble an egg than to do one over easy .  it is a little more difficult .  it will take some study .  and we are not talking about long , many years , science fiction at all ; and the gentleman from maryland explained it very clearly .  we are close .  we need a little research , nonhuman primate research , but we are a lot closer to this possibility than a lot of our colleagues and the general public understand .  mr. speaker , i want to share with my colleagues , as an ob/gyn physician , there is a procedure that probably has been done for at least 10 , 12 , maybe 14 years now .  there is an acronym ; everything has an acronym .  it is called icsi , intracytoplasmic sperm injection .  what do i mean by that ?  an infertile couple where the problem is male infertility and a low sperm count .  a normal sperm count is 60 million .  that is a lot .  when we get below 1 , 000 , it is very difficult and the chances of a natural conception are markedly diminished at that point .  but with this icsi technique , they literally can obtain sperm by a biopsy in someone who has just a few sperm , not 1 , 000 , not 60 million , but maybe just a few ; and take one sperm from that biopsy and under the proper laboratory techniques , maybe a specialized microscope , take the wife 's egg and inject that sperm with a needle , with a very fine needle , under the microscope .  intracytoplasmic sperm injection , and all of a sudden an embryo is created .  life is created .  a child is created .  and after several days in cell multiplication , as the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  was explaining , then that is implanted in the mom 's uterus , and the miracle of birth can occur for that couple .  we are not talking about a procedure , icsi , that is being done exclusively at the national institutes of health .  this is being done right in my community of marietta , georgia , by reproductive endocrinologists , those doctors who specialize in infertility and doing those kinds of things ; and it has been going on for 10 , 12 years now .  so this is an opportunity to come and share this time with my colleague and say that this is not star wars .  for goodness sake , we put a man on the moon in 1969 .  there is a way to do this .  that is to obtain embryonic stem cells without destroying or indeed even harming the embryo , and that analogy , that explanation of twinning and how the mono-zygotic single egg identical twin that the egg divides at a certain stage ; and indeed , they are taking away 50 percent of the cells , and in most instances , if the division is complete , they have two perfectly identical , beautiful children that develop .  i know .  i have got two precious identical twin granddaughters now who are 7 years old , mr. speaker .  they were born at 26 weeks , right at that point where it is perfectly legal with very little prescription in our respective states to destroy those lives .  so this is a hugely important thing to me , and i thank my colleague for pointing out the fact that we are not that far away .  with a little study , a little funding to be able to develop this technique of obtaining these stem cells , these totipotential cells , as he described , without scrambling the egg and doing it the easy way , the simple way , killing the embryo , which is destruction of life .  it is not necessary .  and we are going to be talking , mr. speaker , tomorrow in this chamber about the great successes that we are achieving today with stem cell technology , but not embryonic stem cells .  the results there have been pretty dismal .  we are talking about the great success , 58 different research endeavors where progress has been made in these various diseases that the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  described , utilizing either stem cells obtained from umbilical cord blood or from adult stem cells , bone marrow and other tissues .  so this is why it is so important for our colleagues to hear from the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  and to think about this , to understand exactly what he is saying , because i think it is really on point and very timely .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding , and i thank my friend , the gentleman from nebraska ( mr. osborne )  , for being here with us tonight and for his very , very pertinent remarks in regard to where do you draw the line as far as life .  i have heard people on the other side of this argument say , well , we are talking about getting these stem cells , and they are not really embryos , they are pre-embryos .  maybe our ph.d .  physiologist knows about the definition of pre-embryo , but i never learned that in embryology or any medical school course i took or in my obstetric and gynecology training and my 30 years of experience in the field .  an embryo is an embryo .  an embryo begins at the moment of conception when that sperm and egg come together .  that is the embryonic stage .  really , an embryo , that stage lasts until the birth of the child .  now , you can differentiate and say at 8 weeks or 10 weeks we start calling it a fetus , but there is no , to my knowledge , definition of a pre-embryo .  i wanted to just kind of follow on the gentleman from nebraska 's remarks .  we are hearing a lot now about we have to catch up , mr. speaker , that we are behind .  the south koreans have come up with therapeutic cloning and they have cloned an embryo and they are going to get embryonic stem cells from a cloned embryo , and we are getting further and further behind .  the thing that the american public maybe does not understand is that when they are asked the question , are you for embryonic stem cell research that can cure some of these dreaded diseases , my colleagues have talked about , naturally the response is going to be , oh , yes .  and use federal funding for that ?  sure .  we are going to cure juvenile type i diabetes , and christopher reeves , god rest his soul , we are going to restore the function of his limbs , and we are going to cure alzheimer 's .  but i think so many people , mr. speaker , and even some of our colleagues , need to understand that in getting those embryonic stem cells , the life is destroyed .  and when you ask that question , well , wait a minute now , if you are talking about sacrificing one life to get these cells in hopes that they might lead to at some point in the future a cure , no , i am not for that .  so i think we need to be very clear by it , mr. speaker .  we need to make sure that people understand that the harvesting today and the way it is done and the way it is proposed and the way we are hearing from the castle-degette bill we are going to discuss tomorrow is using federal dollars , taxpayer dollars , where people had no choice , they had to pay their taxes , we are going to use those dollars to fund research that involves the destruction of human life , a little , tiny infant , who with a little bit of luck and ingenuity could grow up and be a member of this body some day .  we were all , were we not , embryos at one time .  of course we were .  and when you get this and you start down this slippery slope in regard to what the south koreans are doing , suppose , mr. speaker , that the harvesting of these stem cells from these cloned embryos that the results are not very good , as they have not really been very good in the embryonic stem cells we have retained from these so-called throw-away babies , these 400 , 000 in these fertility clinics .  the results have not been that good .  that is why the gentleman from nebraska said that most of the private funding is going toward adult stem cells .  but what i am saying , and i will wrap this up pretty quickly because i know the gentleman 's time is running short , in these cloned embryos , if it is not working too well with the fetal cells , the embryonic cells , why not let these babies develop , maybe to the point 26 weeks , the stage at which my precious twin granddaughters were born , and then you have got an organ that you can transplant , a liver , a pancreas , and you can then just simply destroy the child at that point and take their organs ?  this is a slippery slope upon which we are about to start if we do not defeat this bill tomorrow , and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  has an alternative to this , and it is something that i think is timely and it is good and i commend him for his efforts .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith 's ) stem cell therapeutics and research act of 2005 , and commend the gentleman for his courageous and principled stand for the sanctity of life .  as a physician member , i know that significant successes are being reported from the use of umbilical cord stem cells in the treatment of 67 diseases , including sickle cell anemia , leukemia , osteoporosis and lymphoma .  there is great promise in this research .  umbilical cord stem cells , unlike embryonic stem cells can be matched to a recipient by blood type , gender , ethnicity , that results in fewer tissue rejections .  compare this to embryonic stem cells .  aside from the fact that harvesting embryonic stem cells results in the destruction of innocent life , embryonic stem cells are gathered without knowledge of blood cell type , without assurance that they are free from infection , and without screening for genetic defects .  these embryonic stem cells may be mismatched , carry infection , or have genetic defects with cancer-producing potential .  there is a better way , mr. speaker .  it is h.r. 2520 , which enhances federal funding for expanding the already successful use of umbilical cord stem cells .  when you consider the ethics and the science and the debate , it is clear that cord blood stem cells are the right choice for our federal funding and scientific support .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader for yielding .  mr. speaker , i rise this evening in opposition , strong opposition , to h.r. 810 , not as a physician , not as an obstetrician-gynecologist , but as a pro-life catholic who firmly believes in the sanctity of life .  i have sat here for almost 3 hours listening to every word of the debate as part of my job as a member of the rebuttal team , and here is my legal pad of notes and rebuts .  most of those rebuts are against people on my side of the aisle , because this issue is clearly a bipartisan issue .  you have members , republicans and democrats , who are for the bill , indeed the authors , and you have republicans and democrats who are in opposition to the bill .  so i have got plenty of rebuttals that i could make , but very briefly , i will just mention one or two .  one of the gentlemen on my side of the aisle said that we need the federal government , we need the federal government involved in embryonic stem cell research and the funding of that to provide ethical guidelines to the states .  you remember that comment , maybe an hour or so ago ?  well , if the federal government is involved in a program where taxpayer dollars are spent to destroy human life , what ethical advice can they give to my state of georgia , i ask ?  i think none .  you see , i firmly believe in the sanctity of life , and i believe that life does begin at conception , and these embryos are definitely living human beings .  the gentleman just said a few minutes ago that `` i ca n't imagine that a 14-week blastocyst has the same value as a human being. '' indeed , it does .  mr. speaker , i would ask my colleagues to look at these charts and what we know with these so-called frozen throwaway embryos that nobody wants .  well , there are hundreds today of these snowflake children , and there will be many more when people realize this is available to them .  yes , it starts as an embryo , just a few cells , and then a blastocyst .  but then here is a 20-week ultrasound with a beating heart and brain and limbs and moving , and then here is the final result .  let me just say in conclusion , the gentleman from new jersey talked about his development , his growth and development , and going backwards in his life .  he stood in this well and said , `` i am an adult man today .  but yesterday i was a teenager , and before that i was a toddler. '' but he did not go the opposite direction and say `` in 20 years i will be a senior citizen , and after that i may be in a nursing home and i may have alzheimer 's .  i may be a vegetable. '' you would not want to destroy those lives , any more than the embryos at the beginning of life .  i certainly thank the gentleman from maryland for yielding .  it is indeed a pleasure to again be with him tonight , madam speaker .  any opportunity that i have as an original cosponsor of the gentleman from maryland 's legislation , h.r. 3144 , is an opportunity that i gladly accept no matter what the hour .  the importance of this issue really can not be overstated .  i know the gentleman from maryland as he started this special order hour discussed the fact that of the so-called throwaway embryos , throwaway babies as we see it in these in vitro fertilization clinics that exist across this country , i think somebody estimated there were 400 , 000 of them and that in some instances couples who had gone through in vitro fertilization and completed their families truly would have some extra embryos that they at least at a certain point in time had no intention of having reimplanted .  so for the time being , maybe they were excess embryos .  but those of us who feel very strongly about the sanctity of life truly believe that there is no such thing as an excess human life at either extreme , the very youngest embryonic stage or the very oldest , many of whom i would be referring to , our octogenarians and older who might be in a nursing home suffering from alzheimer 's disease at the final stages of their lives , but all of these lives are extremely important ; and as the gentleman from maryland pointed out , there are actually 100 or close to 100 little babies , up to 6 , 8 months old now who were referred to as the snowflake babies .  they actually were donated to couples who were barren , infertile , from these couples who had completed their family and had these excess embryos frozen that they were not going to use .  we have seen them .  i think the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  had a lot to do with bringing , along with the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. pitts )  , these little children to the house , to the congress , and indeed to the white house during the week that we were debating the bill brought to us by the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  .  as the gentleman from maryland points out , there are a lot more of those little lives that are still on ice , if you will ; and the gentleman from maryland is so right in pointing out that , hey , maybe one of those would be an einstein one of these days , the next einstein .  some of my colleagues say , well , just 100 out of 400 , 000 , that is not very many .  indeed , it is a fourth of this body , madam speaker , almost a fourth of 435 members of the house of representatives .  there may be some real smart ones remaining on ice that possibly could end up being united states senators .  more importantly , of course , it could be the next pope john ii or pope john iii or martin luther king , jr .  or abraham lincoln .  who is to say what we are talking about as a throwaway life ?  i am just so grateful for the gentleman from maryland for bringing us a bill , h.r. 3144 , which avoids this issue of destroying human life for the purpose of obtaining embryonic stem cells .  i do not think , madam speaker , that we will ever get to the point in this chamber , as much as i , and i am sure the gentleman from maryland is of the same mind-set , of wanting to do things in a bipartisan fashion with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle , this issue , this pro-life/pro-choice issue .  the country is probably pretty evenly divided .  this body is probably evenly divided .  but the point is we do not have to get into a knockdown , drag-out , hair-pulling , fingernail-scratching bloodbath over this issue .  that is what the gentleman from maryland is bringing to us , an opportunity to support a bill that does not lead us down that road where there seems like there will never be a meeting of the minds .  this opportunity , basically , as he is pointing out with his posters in regard to the ability , with some research , to be able to obtain embryonic stem cells without destroying human life , without destroying the embryo , i have heard him refer to this almost like an embryonic biopsy .  as i understand the bill , it is an opportunity to encourage , with the president 's blessing , increased funding through the nih for research on nonhuman primates to make sure that this biopsy , actually it has already been done in genetic counseling studies on couples who have a really strong family history of inheritable diseases , something like hemophilia or duchenne 's muscular dystrophy where maybe if it is an adult child , it has a 50 percent chance of having one of these life-threatening , eventually fatal diseases .  we are already doing testing on those embryos to make sure that it would be safe to put them back into the mother 's womb to grow and develop and become a full-term fetus and there has been no harm in those instances .  this is not wild-eyed science , something that is star wars mentality .  not at all .  we are talking about one of the brightest members of this body , a ph.d .  physiologist , a doctor of physiology who has taught in medical school .  madam speaker , when i was in medical school , it was my instructor who taught me physiology , the functioning of the human body in a healthy situation , whether we are talking about the heart , the lungs , or any organ system of the body .  that is the study of physiology .  that is who we are talking about when we reference this member , the gentleman from maryland , who is bringing us this bill .  he knows of what he speaks .  he has taught not only physiology but also embryology .  i know my colleagues as they listen to his presentation tonight and they look at the material , the visual aides that he has with him , it is clear that his understanding , his depth of knowledge is far beyond maybe what even the physician members of this body have .  so it is with a deep amount of respect for him that i have signed on to this bill .  i am fully supportive of it .  it gives us an opportunity to address this issue of trying to find a way with stem cells , whether they are adult or embryonic ; and i tend to agree with the gentleman from maryland that embryonic stem cells probably do have a little more potential , although we have had great success in adult stem cells and a lot of these diseases that our colleagues have talked about and we have seen there is no argument , i do not think , in this body , in a partisan way about wanting to help and wanting to use science to the best of our ability to look for a cure .  there is not a guarantee .  there is absolutely no guarantee .  there are probably lots of complications , false starts , two steps back for one step forward .  there will be lots of money , federal dollars probably being spent on research .  but the point is the president in august of 2001 was absolutely right , in my humble opinion , in regard to his decision to put a moratorium on the harvesting of stem cells , embryonic stem cells that would result in the destruction of human life .  at that point , there were some 60 cell lines already in existence that our university research scientists at nih and other places were using .  the president said , that is perfectly okay to continue .  those lives have already been destroyed in obtaining those stem cell lines .  good research was occurring .  the president , this president , george w. bush , is the very first president that , in fact , allowed federal funding for research on embryonic stem cells .  so those who criticize or suggest , madam speaker , that this president is insensitive and uncaring , i suggest to my colleagues that this president is the most caring that we have ever had in regard to this issue .  he has done more than any other president .  he does not deserve to be criticized , but rather applauded for his efforts in this regard .  and i think he is steadfast in his determination not to destroy human life because , as the gentleman from maryland has pointed out and as i just said , we do not know those so-called extra embryos , those throwaway embryos .  we do not know what those lives entail .  we do know that they have a very unique , full complement of dna that have all of their genetic material they are going to ever have .  they are the tiniest of human life , little tiny babies .  we call them embryos , but they are little tiny embryos whose lives are frozen and suspended .  but they should have that opportunity .  and even the couples who think , madam speaker , that they would never use those embryos , we have witnessed tragedies every day in the news , this 24-hour cable news that we are subjected to , but we read about children that are kidnapped , abused , murdered , the situation in aruba , the situation in nebraska .  we can just name so many where people think that their family is complete and they have got all they want out of their reproductive life , and all of a sudden , as the old country song goes , `` some days are diamonds and some days are stones , '' all of a sudden we have a few days that are stones and there might be a tragic loss of a child or more than one child , and all of a sudden maybe those frozen embryos do not seem so expendable anymore .  so that is why this issue is so important and why i feel so very passionate , not just myself and the author of this bill , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  , but a number of others who have signed on to this bill .  the white house , i think , is very supportive of this .  there is a companion piece of legislation , as i understand ; it originating in the other body .  we are on to something here .  and again it is a pleasure to join my colleague tonight and share these thoughts , try to maybe enlighten my colleagues on both sides of the aisle , madam speaker ; and i do thank the gentleman for giving me an opportunity to be with him to discuss such an important issue .  and i will be glad to stick around for a little while if we want to get into a colloquy later on , but i thank him for giving me this opportunity .  madam speaker , i wanted to mention to the gentleman that as an ob/gyn physician , of course i have had some experience with some of the processes that can occur in reproductive endocrine laboratories and the technique dealing with infertile couples , and i have had a discussion with the gentleman from maryland about this .  but in a situation where the couple is infertile and it is because of male infertility , there is nothing wrong with the egg , but there is a very , very low sperm count in the male , and normally it takes probably 1 , 000 sperm to successfully fertilize an egg in the natural way .  in fact , the normal sperm count in a male is about 60 million .  but even a sperm count as low as 1 , 000 , pregnancy can occur in the normal , natural way .  but when it gets much lower than that , it becomes less and less possible .  but they have a technique .  and there is an acronym , madam speaker .  there is an acronym for everything , it seems , even though this is not in the military .  that acronym is icsi .  it stands for intracytoplasmic sperm injection , icsi .  and these biologists working with reproductive endocrinologists , medical doctors who specialize in infertility , can literally take a single sperm and with a needle inject that sperm into the egg and create a life , and that has been done many times , and not just at the nih , but in a lot of these infertility clinics across this great country , in my state of georgia .  it is something that is done routinely .  so what the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  is talking about in this poster presentation in regard to waiting to just the right point for these scientists to be able to develop a technique to obtain embryonic stem cells without destroying that embryo and beyond the point where that single cell itself would be an embryo , he knows of what he speaks .  and i wanted to have an opportunity to share that , madam speaker , with our colleagues and make sure they understand that here again we are not talking about star wars technology here .  we are talking about things that are being done today .  mr. speaker , i rise today to support not only h.r. 2520 , but also h.r. 810 , the castle/degette legislation to expand federal research for embryonic stem cells .  undoubtedly , each of us on this floor today has a friend , family member or neighbor who could benefit from increased embryonic stem cell research , whether they suffer from spinal cord injury , alzheimer 's , ms or juvenile diabetes .  as we consider both the castle/degette stem cell bill and the smith legislation on umbilical cord stem cells , it is important we differentiate between the effects of these two bills .  i support both of them .  but one is not a substitute for the other .  the castle/degette bill will expand research on embryonic stem cells , which would have the ability to reproduce indefinitely and to evolve into any cell type in the body .  it is this element of embryonic cell research that offers the most hope for finding cures to the diverse set of diseases that plague too many americans .  we can not take away that hope by shutting the door on federal research on embryonic stem cells .  the president 's policy shut that door , and we have lost 4 years of robust research that will be needed to cure the most complex diseases .  opponents of this bill will say that the embryonic cell research is unproven , but we will never know the true promise of embryonic stem cells if we hold back federal dollars for the research .  if embryonic stem cell research gets us even one step closer to curing parkinson 's , spinal cord injury and alzheimer 's , it is worth every penny .  just ask michael j. fox , dana reeves or nancy reagan .  these tremendous people , as well as countless more in each of our communities , know what it is like to live every day waiting for your cure .  slamming the door on stem cell research slams the door in their faces .  we talk about using our values to pass legislation to help people .  both these bills are important to helping people with such terrible illnesses .  this last saturday i helped my wife 's mom move into a nursing home .  she was diagnosed with alzheimer 's in the mid-1990s .  we have watched the progression of that terrible disease .  nothing can help my mother-in-law .  but by voting today for both these bills , we can help maybe the next generation , instead of sticking our heads in the sand .  i urge my colleagues to do the right thing for the millions of americans suffering from incurable diseases .  pass both the castle/degette bill and the smith legislation and keep the hope for embryonic cell and cord blood research alive .  mr. speaker , the promise for curing a whole host of debilitating diseases is brighter than it 's ever been .  today , congress has the opportunity to capitalize on breakthrough scientific research to help millions across our country .  representatives castle and degette have crafted this bill meticulously , which would allow the use of surplus embryos from in vitro fertilization treatments and require donor consent .  it does not allow stem cells to be sold for profit .  this legislation takes an ethical and moral approach to a challenging subject , and throughout is respectful of the value of life .  real political courage and leadership -- on both sides of the aisle , in the house and senate -- was required to bring us to this point .  people from every point along the political spectrum -- from nancy reagan to the late christopher reeve -- have embraced the promise and potential of stem cell research .  parkinson 's , cancer , alzheimer 's , juvenile diabetes , spinal cord injuries -- cures for these and other serious ailments may lie in stem cell research .  we owe it to generations of suffering americans and their families to help find treatments that could lead to full recovery .  many in this body like to talk about `` values. '' today , i say to them : using discarded embryos to find scientific cures for fatal diseases is our moral obligation .  saving life is precisely what we all care about .  mr. speaker , a vote for h.r. 810 is a vote to save lives .  i urge all my colleagues to support this bipartisan , bicameral legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the legislation to help us have continued success in the funding for research for uses for adult stem cells .  adult stem cells really encompass a number of different kinds .  people have talked today about cord blood .  they have talked about the bone marrow stem cells .  a number of them have already been used clinically and with much success .  i believe it is this congress 's duty to help support that , because certainly we will have many people who have benefited already and additional people in the future who can benefit from this kind of research .  in fact , the university of pittsburgh in my hometown just announced about a week or so ago that they are doing clinical trials regarding the use of bone marrow stem cells to help reverse chronic heart failure .  i met a gentleman actually who was involved in the research , and they talked about trials that have already been done in south america that have been successful .  these are all with adult stem cells .  it is important for congress to fund research , but it is especially important for this congress to fund responsible research and that is the research supported on this bill on adult stem cells .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader for yielding me this time , and i am rising in opposition to the legislation that would fund the destruction of embryos in order to take the stem cells for research .  there are a number of reasons that i oppose the bill .  the very first one , though , is one of the statements we keep hearing over and over again from those who support the bill , and that is that these embryos would just be discarded .  this morning , i met several families , parents with young children who are here in washington .  these children were just like every other child , but they were different .  and they were different because these children are the snowflake babies .  they have been referred to a little bit today , but for those just joining the argument , the snowflake babies are born from what would have been discarded embryos in fertilization clinics .  it is important that we know this , because it is not , no option , that these embryos would be discarded or tossed aside .  it is true these embryos are often adopted .  and , in fact , the children i met today were wonderful evidence of that .  it looks like these embryos do not have to be discarded .  all they needed was a mother and 9 months .  we do not have to choose between embryonic stem cell research and cord blood , assuming that only embryonic can solve problems .  and , in fact , there is no proof that embryonic stem cell research can be successful .  this list on the left on this chart shows all the different treatments currently using adult stem cells .  on the right is the list of success with embryonic stem cells .  it is a pretty empty list .  i encourage my colleagues to reject the false promise of embryonic stem cell research and reject this legislation .  mr. speaker , we will be hearing a great deal today about the humane and helpful and hopeful research of embryonic stem cells .  this is an advance similar to advances in past years of blood transfusions and organ transplants .  and to be fair , some patients do not want to take part in blood transfusions and organ transplants for personal reasons .  however , for most americans , embryonic stem cell research falls well within public ethical standards .  it is something that we should be supporting .  we will hear from some today that cord blood and adult stem cells hold promise .  not nearly so much promise as embryonic stem cells .  supporting cord blood research at the expense of supporting embryonic stem cell research is like buying a schwinn bicycle to travel across the country .  potentially useful , but it is not likely to get us there .  this is something that is well within the public ethical norms .  we should be supporting h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i am proud to represent new jersey , one of the few states that devotes its own resources to embryonic stem cell research .  to help us understand this humane line of research , let us look at in vitro fertilization .  several decades ago , many people raised concerns about this procedure ; everywhere there were attacks using the term `` test tube babies. '' but today there are 400 , 000 young people who are the products of in vitro fertilization , and in every case , there are eggs , fertilized eggs , that were not brought to full-term birth .  but people do not condemn the use of ivf .  and just as we do not place ethical burdens on the children who were conceived through ivf , we should not place ethical burdens on the millions of americans suffering from parkinson 's , alzheimer 's , diabetes , et cetera .  i am hoping that several decades from today , we will look back and find ourselves thankful that we came to a humane , prudent conclusion .  embryonic stem cell research will have yielded new ways to diagnose , treat , and cure tragic diseases .  i urge my colleagues to support the humane h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the bipartisan stem cell research enhancement act , h.r. 810 , legislation that will dramatically expand the number of stem cell lines available for federally funded research .  this bill will allow scientists to more effectively pursue cures and therapies for a wide array of life-threatening illnesses and disabilities affecting millions of americans .  earlier today , the house passed a related but very different bill : the stem cell therapeutic and research act , h.r. 2520 .  this legislation will create a new federal program to collect and store umbilical-cord-blood stem cells for research purposes .  i support the additional research on adult stem cells provided for by h.r. 2250 , but this legislation is not a substitute for h.r. 810 and its emphasis on embryonic stem cell research .  embryonic stem cells have a unique ability to develop into any type of cell as they mature , offering scientists tremendous insights on the replacement of damaged cells and organs , the mechanics of life-threatening diseases , and the testing and development of new drugs .  adult stem cells , on the other hand , have not shown this ability to differentiate into specific types of cells , have not yet been identified in all vital organs , and are difficult to identify , purify , and grow .  although embryonic stem cell research promises extraordinary medical discoveries , the available supply of existing embryonic stem cells is woefully insufficient .  according to the national institutes of health , nih , only 22 of the 78 stem cell lines that were deemed eligible for federal funding by president george bush in 2001 are currently available to nih investigators .  some of these 22 lines are too expensive or difficult to obtain , and some have been contaminated with non-human molecules diminishing their therapeutic value for humans .  to make matters worse , these stem cell lines lack the genetic variation needed to develop therapies that will benefit the diverse population of the united states .  h.r. 810 addresses the shortage of embryonic stem cell lines by lifting the arbitrary and indefensible august 9 , 2001 cut-off date for stem cell eligibility .  since 2001 , 128 embryonic stem cell lines have been developed , including disease-specific stem cell lines that allow researchers to understand the basic cause of some rare diseases .  this legislation also provides stricter ethical guidelines to ensure that only the best and most ethical stem cell research will be federally funded .  the state of california has already taken steps to ensure that human embryonic stem cell research will be allowed to develop by establishing the institute for regenerative medicine , which will devote $ 3 billion to california universities and research institutions over the next 10 years .  the passage of h.r. 810 will further empower and equip california scientific institutions to undertake cutting-edge research on the most pressing medical challenges of our day .  let us make no mistake , the development of lifesaving medical procedures has been slowed by an unwarranted restriction on stem cell research .  i believe that , as policymakers , we have a moral imperative to pursue innovative medical research that can improve the quality of life and prevent harmful illnesses and diseases for generations to come .  i urge my colleagues to join the innumerable scientists , university leaders , patient groups , and medical research groups that support h.r. 810 .  i thank the leader for that information .  if i could go through a couple of these bills .  the defense authorization bill , mr. leader , do you expect at this point in time to have that on a particular day of the week ?  do we know when that will be ?  i thank the gentleman for that response .  with respect to the defense authorization bill , can you tell us now what kind of a rule might be applicable to the consideration of that bill ?  i thank the leader .  i know that our leader and your office are working on that unanimous consent and the parameters of the consideration of , as you point out , a very , very important bill .  there are obviously different points of view on the legislation .  i know we are going to be meeting monday night and going to come in early tuesday .  would you have a thought as to when , because of the importance of this bill , our members want to be sure that they are here , as i am sure yours do as well , what time of day you would expect to be considering that piece of legislation ?  i thank the leader for that information and appreciate his working with leader pelosi in determining that , because this is important .  i think all members will want to make sure that that time frame in which it will be considered , they will be available to be on the floor or be watching the floor debate with the ability to come to the floor to offer their thoughts .  i thank the gentleman for that information .  i thank the leader for that observation .  the happy circumstance is we both certainly agree on this procedure , that it needs to have a thorough airing and debate and discussion .  there are strong views on either side of this issue and quite obviously the consequences of this bill are very substantial .  whether it passes or whether it fails , the consequences are substantial .  so we appreciate the fact that there will be significant time to discuss and debate this issue .  mr. leader , i have two items left .  the head start reauthorization has now , as you know , been marked up by the committee .  i know it is not coming next week , and we will be out the week after that for the memorial day work period .  can you tell me when you might expect the head start reauthorization bill to come to the floor ?  i thank the gentleman and would hope that we could try to move that as quickly as possible .  obviously , people will want to be planning for the next school year and next head start year .  lastly , mr. leader , the highway bill .  as we know , the highway bill is now more than 2 years overdue in terms of reauthorization , has been sitting for some period of time .  the senate has now passed that bill .  can you tell us when we might appoint conferees for the highway conference ?  i thank the leader for that observation and hopefully we can , in fact , move on that .  we not only passed it last week but we passed it a number of times before that .  mr. leader , i would simply observe on our side and , frankly , on your side that the senate number is a number that i think our committee certainly and this house could well approve .  i know the president does not like that number , but very frankly , as the gentleman knows , our own committee almost unanimously on voice vote passed out an authorization figure at , i think , 375 , so $ 80 billion more than the senate-passed bill .  i would certainly hope that the congress could exercise its will .  the senate was at 218 .  we were at 284 .  now it is a little bit in between that .  i would hope that we could move this conference as quickly as possible .  it has been held up a long time and has a significant consequence for jobs , as the leader knows , significant consequence for contractors , states , municipalities , localities , and we have been a long time waiting for this passage that is now some 2 years late .  but i appreciate the leader 's observation that we will appoint conferees next week , and hopefully perhaps the leader can help accelerate that conference so we can agree .  and then the president , of course , will have to do what he thinks is best and make a determination , and then we might have a shocking event and he may veto a bill and send it back to us , and i am relatively confident we would work our will at that point in time .  i do not know whether the leader wants to make an observation .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i recall that democrats , when they were in charge , had a slightly different perspective , believing we were a co-equal branch of the government .  we would adopt our policies based upon what we believed to be in the best interests of this country , and that the president , as a co-equal branch of the government , would make his determination , and if we disagreed we would override his veto .  as a matter of fact , i voted to override a number of vetoes that the previous democratic president disagreed with us on .  the gentleman is right .  we do not seem to do that .  we have a 4 1/2 -year unblemished record , as the leader points out , of not doing anything that this president did not want us to do .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , does the gentleman by any chance remember the ag bill ?  the ag bill that was passed some years ago .  the president was not too excited about that spending level , as i recall .  he signed the bill , nevertheless .  mr. speaker , i have been here for some period of time , as the leader knows , and the only bill that ronald reagan vetoed that was overridden by the congress was a bill in which he said we did not spend enough money in 1983 .  he vetoed it because we did not spend enough money .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding and want to congratulate the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  for her leadership and his leadership on this bill .  this is , i think , one of the most important bills that we will consider for the welfare of people not only in this country , but throughout the world .  mr. speaker , let us be very clear about what this bipartisan , moderate bill would do and not do .  this legislation , which has 200-plus cosponsors from both sides of the aisle , would not permit federal funding for cloning ; it would not permit federal funding to create embryos , nor would it permit federal funding to destroy embryos .  this important legislation simply expands the current federal policy of allowing federal funding for research on stem cell lines derived after the arbitrary date of august 9 , 2001 , from embryos created for fertility treatment that would otherwise be discarded .  recall that on that date , president bush announced that federal funds would be available to support research on human embryo stem cells so long as such research was limited to existing stem cell lines .  at the time it was believed that 78 stem cell lines were eligible .  yet today , as we know , only 22 such lines are available for research , and these lines are aged , contaminated or developed with outdated research .  meanwhile , there are at least 125 new stem cell lines with substantial potential that federally funded researchers can not use .  thus , mr. speaker , i believe the issue before this house today is this : will we foster embryonic stem cell research , research that holds great promise for the potential treatment or cure of diseases such as als , lou gehrig 's disease , alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , and other diseases , and offer hope to those with spinal cord injury and other injuries of the nervous system , or will we stand in the way ?  i know that the opponents of this bill believe that we are ignoring the ethical and moral implications of such research .  i do not share that view .  but , in fact , this legislation requires the department of health and human services and the national institutes of health to issue guidelines for ethical considerations ; it requires a determination that the embryos would never have been implanted and would have been discarded ; and it requires the donor 's written , informed consent .  mr. speaker , i realize this is a difficult issue for many .  it is , however , i think , an issue that the american people have made a judgment on .  it is an issue which they , i think , overwhelmingly support .  the polls seem to reflect that at least 60 percent of the americans asked the question support this important effort .  they believe it holds promise for them , for their spouses , for their children .  we have talked much about life on this floor .  it is important that we do so .  it is important that we do so in a thoughtful and principled way .  i believe that this moderate , well-thought-out , carefully constructed bill takes a step that america expects us to take .  this is the people 's house .  i believe the people would have us pass this legislation , and i urge my colleagues to vote accordingly .  mr. speaker , the reason this vote is so important is simply because the embryo is human life .  it is not animal , it is not vegetable , it is not mineral , but a tiny , microscopic beginning of a human life .  everyone in this room was an embryo at one time .  i , myself , am a 192-month-old embryo .  the question we face is how much respect is due to this tiny little microscopic human life .  if we are truly pro-life , we should protect it rather than treat it as a thing to be experimented with .  lincoln asked a very haunting question at a small military cemetery in pennsylvania .  he asked whether a nation conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal can long endure ?  and that question has to be answered by every generation .  what is wrong with this legislation ?  the motives of its sponsors are so noble .  well , i will tell you two things that are fatally wrong with this legislation .  the first one is , for the first time in our national history , taxpayers ' dollars are going to be spent for the killing of innocent human life .  that is number one .  and number two , this bill tramples on the moral convictions of an awful lot of people who do not want their tax dollars going to be spent for killing innocent human life .  americans paid a terrible price for not recognizing the humanity of dred scott .  we are going to pay a terrible price for not recognizing the humanity of these little embryos .  we should not go down that road .  in world war ii , 1940 , before america got in the war , there was a publication called the yearbook of obstetrics and gynecology .  and dr .  joseph delee wrote in that yearbook something that applies to us today .  here is what he wrote .  `` at the present time , when rivers of blood and tears of innocent men and women are flowing in most parts of the world , it seems almost silly to be contending over the right to life of an unknowable atom of human flesh in the uterus of a woman .  `` no , it is not silly .  on the contrary , it is of transcendent importance that there be in this chaotic world one high spot , however small , which is safe against the deluge of immorality and savagery that is sweeping over us .  `` that we , in the medical profession , hold to the principle of the sacredness of human life and the rights of the individual , even though unborn , is proof that humanity is not yet lost. '' i believe humanity is not yet lost , and this vote will tell us the answer to that question .  mr. speaker , i come to speak for life , life for people with diabetes , life for people with parkinson 's , life for people with damaged hearts .  what possible benefit is it for life to discard these cells without allowing them to be used to bring life , to save life , to preserve life ?  if these cells have any future , it is through curing disease .  if members wish to give them life , then let them give life to others .  this is their only hope , and it is our best hope .  dr .  connie davis , the medical director of university of washington 's kidney and kidney-pancreas transplant program , put this discussion in perspective when i was talking to her yesterday .  she reminded me that the donation of a kidney used to be a controversial issue in this country .  it is no longer so .  our bill allows donors of these stem cells to make a donation decision , a donation to research .  a narrow segment of our nation did not stop lifesaving kidney donations , and a narrow segment should not stop embryonic stem cell research .  healing is a moral thing to do .  i met a man at the transplant association the other day .  he and his wife had , in fact , had an in vitro fertilization .  he had other additional embryos that were available .  he wanted to make those available to cure people with diabetes and parkinson 's disease , and he had one thing he asked me .  he said to me , let me and my wife make that moral judgment , not the 435 strangers who know nothing about my moral interior values or my life .  that is an american right to donation .  we should preserve it and pass this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of this important bill .  i have met with constituents with afflictions such as alzheimer 's disease , parkinson 's disease , childhood leukemia , heart disease , lou gehrig 's disease , diabetes , several cancers , spinal cord injuries , and other diseases , disorders and injuries .  embryonic stem cell research offers them hope .  i have also met with an amazing young woman named brooke ellison from long island .  in 1990 , when she was eleven years old , brooke was hit by a car , which left her paralyzed from the neck down .  even with this hardship , she graduated from harvard university in 2000 , harvard 's kennedy school of government in 2004 , and she is currently a ph.d .  candidate in political science at stony brook university .  her inspiring story was made into a movie on a & amp ; e and was directed by the late christopher reeves .  i have worked with her to raise public awareness of the importance of stem cell research , and under the unanimous consent agreement , i am including an essay that brooke wrote on the issue in the congressional record .  as everyone here knows , on august 9 , 2001 , president bush announced that embryonic stem cell research would be limited ; he limited federal funds by limiting eligible lines for research .  although scientists were expecting a big number of available lines , less than one third of the allowed 78 lines are available for distribution .  the stem cell research enhancement act would expand research on embryonic stem cells by increasing the number of lines stem cells that would be eligible for federally funded research .  this bill should not be controversial .  the bill ensures that strict ethical guidelines would be met : the embryos would have been donated with informed written consent and without any financial payment or other inducement to make the donation .  these are embryos that will be discarded .  finally , the bill would not use any federal funds to derive the stem cells .  it is a good bill , but i wish this bill went further .  there is still a need for other funding , because state or private funding would be needed to fund deriving the stem cells .  california and new jersey have already set up funding sources for embryonic stem cell research , and a number of other states have announced intentions to fund this research .  we must ensure that all entities can work together .  scientists still need funding for the aspects of research that the federal government will not cover .  today , i am introducing a resolution that expresses the sense of congress that the federal government should not infringe on states or private organizations that fund embryonic stem cell research .  i hope that my colleagues will show support for all embryonic research , by supporting my resolution .  many of us have family members suffering from devastating illnesses , and the prospect of helping them to be healthy and free of pain is a worthy goal .  make no mistake ; this goal is what we are debating today .  enticingly close ... ..  yet painfully far the ability to view the world through another 's eyes is the essence of altruism .  when putting their pens to the paper of policy , those who legislate ought to take into keen consideration the world as it is seen through others ' eyes , wrought with the problems they face and conditions they endure .  this is the basic tenet of a representative democracy , the basic belief upon which the united states was founded .  yet , despite this underlying and widely accepted notion of several voices speaking on behalf of many , this does not always appear to be the case and , in fact , those making collective decisions can become inextricably linked to their own , myopic ideology , failing to understand the situations of others or hear their voices .  in september of 1990 , when i was eleven years old , i was hit by a car while walking home from my first day of 7th grade .  that accident left me paralyzed from my neck down and dependent on a ventilator for every breath i take .  living as a person with a physical disability or debilitating disease , each day is a struggle .  tasks that , to others , might seem mundane or be taken for granted are strenuous challenges , sometimes taking long hours instead of mere minutes , causing frustration both from what can not be at present and potential being lost in the future .  when we place our hopes and visions for our world into the hands of those making broad decisions , we do it with the belief that they will act on behalf of our best interest and not on an isolated viewpoint .  to do otherwise is bad policy .  to undermine the interests of a majority of citizens is bad policy .  to ignore the voices and dash the hopes of those most in need is bad policy .  in the context of stem cell research legislation , these are bad policies , yet policies that are being upheld .  this forces millions to wonder things like , `` if i could be freed from the on august 9th , 2001 , from his ranch in crawford , texas , president bush announced that he would significantly limit federal funds to stem cell research , only agreeing to fund research conducted on to stem cell lines already in existence at the time .  according to this limitation , federally supported research could be done on no more than 78 existing genetic cell lines , although even the most optimistic estimates of viable cells were estimated to be far fewer , less than two dozen .  to the delight of some and the grief of others , mr. bush indicated that the use of embryonic cells for medical research was a violation of the sanctity of life , analogous to abortion or euthanasia .  in the president 's own words , `` i worry about a culture that devalues life , and believe as your president i have an important obligation to foster and encourage respect for life in america and throughout the world ... ... .  embryonic stem cell research offers research that holds so much promise for so many now remains unsupported by the federal government .  similar to other issues facing our nation today , the decision of whether or not to fund embryonic stem cell research is now left in the hands of the states , with the legislatures and governors picking up where the u.s. congress and president have left off .  california , with its proposition 71 , has been the most recent state to make substantive progress on the issue , passing a referendum to support research conducted in the state .  california joins new jersey in leading the charge for state-funded stem cell research .  but the cause should not and must not stop there , as two states out of our fifty is simply not enough .  with researchers , scientists , and human lives waiting in the wings for advances , opportunity wasted is opportunity lost .  therapeutic stem cell research , also known as somatic cell nuclear transfer , has the potential to provide cures for a considerable number of neurological and degenerative conditions , including alzheimer 's disease , parkinson 's disease , childhood leukemia , heart disease , als , several different types of cancer , and spinal cord injuries .  in its most basic description , stem cells are the undifferentiated , unspecialized cells that can be extracted from embryos in their earliest stages of development , three to five days after fertilization .  the embryos , known in this initial developmental form as blastocysts , contain only about 30 cells .  importantly , the cells taken from the blastocysts can be well , some have argued , is n't using stem cells just the destruction of one life for the sake of another ?  are n't we simply judging some lives as more important than others ?  to hold such a belief is to view the world in black and white terms , thereby ignoring the much more complex gray areas .  yes , it is possible that , if a blastocyst , from where stems cells are derived , were to be inserted into a womb and allowed to grow for nine months there is the potential a life could be born .  however , that is not the case for any of the blastocysts that yield stem cells that are used for research .  these blastocysts are those that will go unused after in vitro fertilization procedures and will never be used to bring about life .  these blastocysts , which some proclaim represent the sanctity of life , will only be kept in freezers at fertility clinics until they have expired and then will be discarded completely .  under current federal legislation , they are of no use to anybody .  to rob the stem cells of their other potential of life , which is to cure diseases or to help regenerate parts of the body that are not regenerating on their own , is really to devalue life in another , otherwise avoidable way .  well , others have argued , is n't the work done on stem cells just the same as cloning ?  are n't these cells essentially promoting the creation of another person ?  the once almost incomprehensible , futuristic ideas of `` cloning '' and `` body-doubles '' are now considered feasible and fearsome possibilities , and therapeutic stem cell research has been the unwitting victim of the prevalent fears .  orwell 's 1984 has somehow come to life in 2004 , with the speculations made by some of about unintended , science-fiction consequences .  but , the connection between human reproduction and human therapy is a foggy one at best .  the real fear , though , is not the potential of mad scientists reproducing people but the lost potential of sound scientists curing people .  fourteen years ago , i could have never imagined having to advocate for something that could potentially restore for me the very basic aspects of life and humanity .  but , that is something that no one should have to imagine .  science has given medicine more promise than ever before , with the potential to heal and restore people in ways once unfathomable .  stem cells , which would otherwise serve no other purpose , hold the promise of life , not just for the newly born but now for the already living and this opportunity must be seized .  the time is now .  if the federal government chooses not to do it , then the states must tend to it , themselves .  the time has come when we can change the lives of so many , giving to them the fundamental parts of life and dignity .  mr. speaker , i thank the ranking member for yielding me this time .  let me thank the sponsors of this legislation , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the gentleman from alabama ( mr. davis )  , and , of course , the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  and the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  for the second bill , the bills being h.r. 810 and h.r. 2520 .  let me just say that separating these two legislative initiatives would be like separating the flag from the pledge of allegiance .  it is appropriate to have a marriage today of two very vital and important legislative initiatives , one dealing with adult stem cell research , which is vital and done along ethical lines and will help many in our community that have a number of significant diseases ; in particular , alzheimer 's and sickle cell anemia .  then , of course , the importance of stem cell lines and expanding it under federal funding is something that we can not imagine .  let me tell my colleagues about an individual that i love and admire in my community , reverend m.l .  jackson , exciting , exuberant , a leader in our community .  his family just said that with all of his leadership and heading up ministerial alliances , he has alzheimer 's .  i go home this weekend to meet with reverend jackson and to recount his life with him as he now sees it .  but would it not be wonderful for a vibrant and outstanding leader of our community to have an expanded opportunity , as nancy reagan argued for , for president reagan .  unless federal funding for stem cell research is expanded , the united states stands in real danger of falling behind other countries in this promising area of research .  i would mention that the national academy of sciences recently issued a set of guidelines to ensure that human embryonic stem cell research is conducted in a safe and ethical manner .  this legislation , the castle-degette legislation , h.r. 810 , and , of course , the fantastic and forward-thinking legislation , h.r. 2520 , sponsored by the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , and the gentleman from alabama ( mr. davis )  , represents a coming together of our family .  it certainly deserves a good marriage .  just as we can not separate the pledge and the flag , let us unite today and vote unanimously on these two outstanding initiatives to support american stem cell research , and to save lives .  mr. chairman , i rise this morning in support of the `` stem cell therapeutic and research act of 2005. '' this measure , sponsored by christopher h. smith , joe barton , and artur davis would promote research on a type of stem cell , known as an adult stem cell , taken from umbilical cord blood .  in addition , the bill creates a new federal program to collect and store umbilical-cord-blood stem cells , and expands the current bone-marrow registry program .  while i have no objections to the bill , it is important that no one view h.r. 2520 as a substitute for h.r. 810 , the `` stem cell research enhancement act. '' these are entirely different bills , but both deserve passage .  recent discoveries have convinced scientists that stem cells might eventually become the key to treating diseases such as parkinson 's , diabetes , and heart disease .  researchers hope to be able to study stem cells to better understand how diseases develop and eventually use them to generate tissues that could replace damaged or diseased tissues and organs in patients .  adult stem cells are unspecialized cells found in specialized tissue such as bone marrow or skeletal tissue .  initially , scientists viewed their medical applications as limited in what they can become to the cell types from which they were extracted .  recent evidence has suggested that adult stem cells could provide more flexibility than previously thought , according to the national institutes of health .  this legislation would create a new federal program to collect and store umbilical-cord-blood stem cells , and reauthorizes and expands the current bone marrow registry program .  i am supportive of this bill because it would be of great benefit to african americans .  this bill has specific language that would diversify the bone marrow banks of this nation .  this would be of extreme importance to many african americans suffering from sickle cell anemia .  as you can see , these are complicated issues , but i think we are headed in the right direction .  this bill would help our doctors and scientists discover new treatments and cures for otherwise debilitating and incurable diseases and ailments .  for this i must support it .  however , i can not support this bill without clarifying that it should not be viewed as an alternative to h.r. 810 , rather as a complementary force .  mr. speaker , i make a simple plea to save lives by supporting h.r. 810 , the degette/castle bill , and to help americans who are suffering .  i ask for a `` yes '' vote on h.r. 810 simply to save lives .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 810 , the `` stem cell research enhancement act of 2005. '' as a supporter of the bill , i would argue that it is necessary to expand the number of stem cell lines that can be used in federally funded research in order to accelerate scientific progress toward the cures and treatments for a wide variety of diseases and debilitating health conditions -- including parkinson 's disease , diabetes , alzheimer 's disease , als , cancer , and spinal cord injuries .  according to the national institutes of health , nih , of the 78 stem cell lines that were declared eligible for federal funding in 2001 , only about 22 lines are actually available for study by and distribution to researchers .  further , nih concludes that these stem cell lines are contaminated with `` mouse feeder '' cells , making their therapeutic use for humans uncertain .  these nih-approved lines lack the genetic diversity that researchers need in order to create effective treatments for millions of americans .  h.r. 810 would expand the number of stem cell lines that would be made available under strict ethical guidelines .  the stem cells would be derived from excess frozen fertilized embryos that would otherwise be discarded .  it is estimated that there are currently about 400 , 000 frozen ivf embryos , which would be destroyed if they are not donated for research .  the embryos could be used only if the donors give their informed , written consent and receive no money or other inducement in exchange for their embryos .  it is important for me to note that it is simply not true that adult stem cells offer the same , or better , potential for treating disease as embryonic stem cells .  while embryonic stem cells have qualities that give them the potential to treat a wide variety of diseases and injuries , adult stem cells do not have those same qualities .  unlike embryonic stem cells , adult stem cells can not be induced to develop into any type of cell .  furthermore , adult stem cells may not exist for certain tissues , and adult stem cells are difficult to identify , purify , and grow .  unless federal funding for stem cell research is expanded , the united states stands in real danger of falling behind other countries in this promising area of research .  researchers have already moved to other countries , such as great britain , which have more supportive policies .  the recent announcement that south korean researchers have produced cloned human embryos that are genetic twins of patients with various diseases , and have derived stem cells from them , shows just how far that country is going .  while it is important to recognize that this bill has nothing to do with cloning , it is also important to recognize that other countries are moving ahead in stem cell research .  this bill provides a limited -- but nonetheless highly significant -- change in current policy that would result in making many more lines of stem cells available for research .  it would do so under strict ethical guidelines .  the measure has widespread bipartisan support .  passage of this bill would provide hope for those millions of americans suffering from diseases that may be treated or even cured as a result of stem cell research before concluding , i would just mention that the national academy of sciences , nas , recently issued a set of guidelines to ensure that human embryonic stem cell research is conducted in a safe and ethical manner .  because of the limitations of the current federal policy , only 22 stem cell lines are eligible for federal research and fall under the jurisdiction of national institutes of health guidelines .  specifically , h.r. 810 requires that : the stem cells must be derived from human embryos that were donated from in vitro fertilization clinics , and that were created for the purpose of fertility treatment , but were in excess of the clinical need of the people seeking such treatment ; the embryos would not have been used for fertility treatment , and would otherwise be discarded ; the individuals seeking fertility treatment donated the embryos with informed written consent and without any financial payment or other inducement to make the donation .  in addition , the bill requires that not later than 60 days after enactment , hhs , in consultation with the national institutes of health , issue final guidelines to carry out the requirements of this bill .  finally , the measure requires hhs to report annually to congress on the activities carried out under this bill .  the report must include a description of whether , and to what extent , these activities were carried out in accordance with the requirements of this bill .  in closing , i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 810 .  listen to the following news reports which indicate this research as viable and of great need for so many .  since the federal government 's science officials have abdicated their traditional role in setting ethical rules for medical experimentation , the national academy of sciences has filled the void with useful guidelines for research with human embryonic stem cells .  acting on behalf of scientists around the country , the nas last week issued stem cell research guidelines that should become a blueprint for ethical behavior in both the public and private sector .  the atlanta journal constitution , may 3 , 2005 .  kudos to the national academy of sciences for ably filling the breach caused by the absence of federal guidelines on human embryonic stem cell research .  while we prefer that rules governing research on human tissues be federal and enforceable , the national academy of sciences ' new voluntary guidelines are a necessary stand-in .  the baltimore sun , may 3 , 2005 .  with the federal government 's role limited , research has been proceeding without clear , consistent guidelines ... ... .these and other recommendations are a good start toward ensuring that stem cell research is conducted in an ethical way ... ..  the federal government is still not doing all that it should , but these recommendations ought at least to help the private companies and states that are moving ahead with research that offers so much hope for many americans .  the winston-salem journal , may 3 , 2005 .  the national academy of sciences gave a much needed boost to embryonic stem cell research last week when it issued ethics guidelines that should help researchers find a clear path through a minefield of controversial issues .  .  .  they will give practicing scientists the assurance that they can proceed with their work while adhering to principles endorsed by a panel of distinguished scientists , ethicist , and others .  the new york times , may 2 , 2005 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i rise in strong support of the legislation before us which i consider to be extremely important .  it builds on the president 's policy by merely allowing the use of embryonic stem cells created for fertility purposes to be donated with permission , but without payment , by the woman for research , research to cure some of the terrible diseases that plague our lives .  these free citizens would simply exercise their right and their conscience in donating embryos that would otherwise be discarded , destroyed , as waste .  i believe we have a moral responsibility to advance the research that saves lives , relieves pain , and prevents suffering , rather than destroying those embryos .  those embryos could produce the stem cells that would save lives , and should not be destroyed as waste .  why do we have to do this today ?  because if we do not , stem cell research will be done , but will not be uniformly governed by nih 's ethics policy .  why do we have to do this today ?  because no nation has created a sustained , strong , globally-competitive economy without the freedom to research the frontiers of knowledge .  finally , why do we have to do this today ?  because it is the right thing .  now , we have heard a lot of discussion on the floor today about destroying these cells as taking life and , as a matter of conscience , this is a complicated issue and one on which we disagree .  if you believe life begins when the sperm enters the egg , then , yes , you would believe this is a taking of life , though we would unceremoniously toss those same cells into a waste bucket .  but if you believe that life begins when the fertilized egg is implanted in the mother 's womb , which , of course , is essential for it to realize its potential for life , then using a fertilized egg that has not been implanted is not a taking of life .  if , further , you believe that life begins later in the process , then you are not taking life .  so i ask each of my colleagues to think carefully in conscience when life does begin ; and , on that issue , your vote on this bill rests .  mr. speaker , i rise today to lend my voice to the stem cell research debate .  as a co-sponsor of h.r. 810 , i hope we can expand our scope and benefit of existing stem cell lines .  h.r. 810 represents another step forward in our battle against diseases and illnesses which we have spent billions of dollars trying to research , treat , and cure .  as the premier medical research nation , we must allow our researchers and doctors to remain at the top of their fields of research both internationally and nationally .  we must support our research institutions as they embark on the ethical , expert and very , very necessary trials .  federal research restricts federal funding of stem cell research to the 78 stem cell lines that existed prior to aug .  9 , 2001 .  mr. speaker , h.r. 810 does not usher us into uncharted waters : we are already engaged in both the federal funding and the federal oversight of this research .  if we see the benefit to permitting research on 78 , then the argument is not embryonic research -- but rather numbers .  i come from a district where we have perhaps the leading medical research institutions .  in my district case western reserve university , the cleveland clinic , and university hospital have embarked on a monumental and groundbreaking project to establish the national center for regenerative medicine .  within the walls of these three institutions lie perhaps some of the most advanced and prolific members of the scientific research community on regenerative medicine .  while this research is basically focused on adult stem cell and umbilical cord research , we must continue to move forward with research in a responsible , compassionate , and humane way .  we must support the efforts of the national institutes of health as we move forward .  i support the movement towards the treatment , research , and cure of diseases and illnesses which the use of stem cells can alleviate .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  today we in the congress are debating the essence of human life , the creation of life and the destruction of life .  we are debating how one 's family 's life code , their dna , is propagated and bequeathed to the next generation .  each human life begins as an embryo .  what concerns me , as someone who cherishes life and is a strong supporter of medical research for epilepsy , for diabetes , for spinal cord injury , for alzheimer 's , for so many debilitating diseases , is that this bill seems to be on a very fast track .  it is moving through this congress at record speed and not under the normal procedures we depend on to make informed decisions .  today i rise with more questions than answers on this bill .  i respect the advocates .  i respect those that do not support the bill .  but i know one thing : on a matter of life and death , congress should proceed carefully , thoughtfully and in an informed manner .  all points of view must be heard and not suppressed .  most surprisingly , this bill never had a subcommittee nor a full committee hearing .  so my opinion today about this bill is : not yet .  i am not yet confident that this institution has allowed for full dialogue to develop on a matter of such gravitas .  regardless of how you view the bills before us , the lack of a full hearing record is most troubling indeed .  i ask myself , why is the normal committee process subverted on a matter of such consequence ?  what do proponents have to lose ?  where is the committee transcript that will tell us the diverging views of scientists on the potentiality of adult stem cell versus embryonic stem cell to improve life ?  the fact is , there is none .  some evidence indicates stem cell research from nonembryonic sources now has made a difference in treating 58 different diseases .  we need to know more about the science .  then , where is the committee record that helps us struggle with the essential moral question of : how exactly does one destroy life in order to save it ?  where is the committee transcript that reveals to the majority of members not on the committee the ethical questions that we and every family should be addressing concerning the proprietary nature of the dna in any embryonic cell ?  we go to great lengths as a congress to protect intellectual property rights , as our constitution requires .  after all , this nation provides for patents for computer software , for medical devices , for seed corn genomes ; and yet we provide no protection for the dna of a human embryo ?  whose dna will be bequeathed to the future and whose will not ?  how do we evaluate this bill when so much is missing ?  how do we evaluate which embryos should be allowed to be sent to research and how many to be adopted by infertile couples so those embryos can be developed into full human beings ?  who will decide ?  is it just a matter for the individual couple , or is there a larger , societal responsibility to protect life ?  the woman whose eggs are being taken , how is she legally protected ?  how is her husband or mate legally protected in this relationship ?  and what are the rights of the embryo ?  where is the hearing record that informs us how to carefully manage any transfer of human embryos to research so their essential worth is recognized ?  we are told that the ethical requirements section of the bill will suffice , yet this section is but 156 words long .  it directs that nih will issue final guidelines within 60 days of passage of this bill .  sixty days ?  that is not even enough time to grow a tomato plant .  i ask , is this realistic ?  and further , who will influence nih without more congressional guidance ?  mr. speaker , there is a lot of money to be made in this new field of life science .  i think congress should know who is likely to be making it , especially when federal funding becomes involved .  which biogenetic and pharmaceutical firms stand to benefit the most from moving this bill forward ?  exactly who are they ?  which immunosuppressant drug companies ?  do we as members of congress not have a right to know something more from the nonexistent transcript from the committee ?  i find it most coincidental that last week the south koreans doing research in this arena announced that they had cloned cells , making it appear as though , if congress did not act today , america would fall behind in the world research community .  i found the timing of that announcement just all too convenient and asked myself , which companies were behind it ?  in my opinion , the subcommittee and committees of jurisdiction have not met their responsibilities to this congress , by abdicating their hearing responsibility .  all we have are documents from outside proponents and opponents , and frankly , that is not good enough .  where is the hearing record to which all members can refer which recounts the struggles of proponents and opponents with the ethical requirements that should be a part of this bill , and not merely leave it up to the national institutes of health ?  on a matter of such magnitude , where some human embryos will be destroyed in the hope that new cures are made possible , the congress needs to be more responsible .  i ask my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the degette-castle bill and remand it back to committee .  mr. speaker , i am a strong supporter of stem cell research .  it saves lives , it prolongs life , and it helps unhealthy people remain existent on this earth .  i am a diabetic myself , and for the last decade i have been working with stem cell research in my own district .  the karmanos cancer institute , world renowned in our community and in michigan , and part of the former detroit medical center , is a leader in research .  this bill deals with cord research , umbilical cord research , not controversial .  medical professionals and others support umbilical cord research .  umbilical cord research is the cord that is separated after a woman delivers her child .  in many instances , 90 percent of the time , those cords are displaced and thrown away .  what this bill will help us do is first of all gather those cords across america to save lives , to renew organs , and to continue life as we know it .  so i rise in support of h.r. 2520 as another means for us to prolong life , to give life , from stem cords , umbilical cords of women that are heretofore thrown out .  in our community , we are educating women and asking for their permission that medical research is able to use the cords , the umbilical cords of the fetus .  it is new , it is exciting , and it is happening all over the world .  our country is first in medical science ; and this act that we are taking today will continue research and development , healthier lives and longer lives .  support h.r. 2520 and let us bring america up so that we can save lives , prolong lives , and build a real strong america .  mr. speaker , i rise to support the `` stem cell therapeutic and research act '' .  this bill creates a new federal program to collect and store umbilical cord blood stem cells and reauthorize and expands the current bone marrow registry program .  umbilical cord blood units , typically discarded at hospitals , can be an unlimited source of stem cells with representation of all races and ethnicities .  according to the national marrow donor program ( nmdp ) , african-americans have only a 30 percent chance of finding a stem cell match within their own families and often require healthy stem cells from an unrelated individual , typically another african american .  of the nmdp 's registry of donors , only 8 percent are from african-americans .  i support the use of embryonic stem cells , adult stem cells and cord blood research to find cures .  i urge all of my colleagues to support this bill and h.r. 810 `` stem cell research enhancement act '' introduced by representatives mike castle and diana degette that would lift bush 's 2001 ban on the use of federal dollars for research using any mew embryonic stem cell lines .  all avenues of stem cell research need to be explored .  the current embryonic stem cell policy must be changed .  we can no longer tie the hands of our scientists and researchers when millions of lives are at stake .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this legislation .  and just to be clear once again during this debate , this bill limits the use of only those embryos that will be discarded or destroyed from in vitro fertilization clinics with the consent of the donors .  i rise in support of this legislation not because it promises cures for diabetes , parkinson 's , spinal cord injuries , alzheimer 's , but because it gives us yet another opportunity to discover cures for these ailments .  adult stem cell research , yes , let us do it .  cord blood research , absolutely .  but let us also allow the federal government to get more involved in embryonic stem cell research .  the university of wisconsin has been at the forefront of this research ; yet our researchers are being held back because of current federal policy .  we are already falling behind the rest of the world in this research in light of south korea 's recent announcement last week .  but it is precisely because the other countries are moving forward that makes our involvement all the more necessary .  i believe that we as the leader of the free world must provide important leadership on the ethical parameters , the ethical constraints that this research requires .  support this bipartisan bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  this bill would expand the current federal policy on embryonic stem cell research by allowing federally funded research on stem cell lines derived after august 9 , 2001 , while implementing strong ethical guidelines to ensure federal oversight of the research .  most of the scientific community believes that for the full potential of embryonic stem cell research to be reached , the number of cell lines readily available to scientists must increase .  just last month , a number of nih directors testified before the senate appropriations committee that the current policy is restrictive and hinders scientific progress .  we are already at risk of losing our scientific and technological edge because of increasing competition around the world .  other countries -- such as china , india , and the united kingdom -- are forging ahead with embryonic stem cell research because of less restrictive policies .  india , for example , has an extensive stem cell regulatory system , yet allows the derivation of new stem cells from surplus embryos at fertility clinics .  our restrictive policy not only puts us at risk of losing our scientific edge , we are also at risk of losing some of the best american scientists to other countries where policies are less restrictive .  important advances in the science of embryonic stem cell research have been made since the august 2001 policy was set .  earlier this year , researchers at the university of wisconsin in madison figured out how to grow human embryonic stem cells without using mouse feeder cells .  this is exciting news since mouse feeder cells are thought to be a source of contamination if the cells are ever to be used therapeutically in humans .  from its earliest days , stem cell research has been important to the people of wisconsin .  in fact , dr .  james thomson , a researcher at the university of wisconsin , was the first to isolate and culture embryonic stem cells .  in 2003 , this esteemed researcher received the frank annunzio award , given to recognize the innovative research of american scientists who devote their careers to improving the lives of people through their work in science .  wisconsin has been at the forefront of embryonic stem cell research from the beginning .  this legislation is essential to make sure the important work of our scientists is not unnecessarily sidetracked by politics .  but this legislation is not only important because of the potential for advances in science and technology .  more important is the fact that embryonic stem cell research could lead to new treatments and cures for the many americans afflicted with life-threatening and debilitating diseases .  scientists believe these cells could be used to treat many diseases , including alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , diabetes , and spinal cord injuries .  however , the promise of this research may not be reached if the federal policy is not expanded .  mr. speaker , it has become increasingly clear that the american public supports expanding the federal stem cell policy .  just yesterday , results from a survey of wisconsin voters were released showing overwhelming support for embryonic stem cell research .  nearly two-thirds of those polled support expanding federal policies to support more research -- regardless of party affiliation .  i strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation that will allow science to move forward unimpeded , has the potential to revolutionize the practice of medicine , and can offer hope to the millions of americans suffering from debilitating diseases .  mr. speaker , i thank the leader for yielding me this time .  i ask myself this question : if we are going to deal with this debate on embryonic stem cell research , what are the ethics of this ?  one can go to google and do a google search on permissible medical experiments .  and i did that , and i found that there is a list of 10 things that have to be qualifiers for permissible medical experiments on human beings .  one is the subject must be a volunteer .  the second one is there must be no alternative .  the third one is results of animal experimentation must be proven successful prior to their experiments .  the net result in death or disability can not be accepted .  the seventh one is there can not be even a remote possibility of injury , disability , or death .  the human subject must be at liberty to end the experiment .  and the likely result can not be injury , disability , or death .  the exception is if a physician wants to experiment upon himself .  where do i find this information , mr. speaker ?  i find this information in the military tribunals under control council law no .  10 , october , 1946 , nuremberg .  mr. speaker , today the political center will hold with nancy reagan , and this congress will stand for yankee ingenuity and stem cell research .  our constitution stands at its heart for the principle of the dignity of every individual and this idea is certainly central to our government and people .  but there is a key american principle at the heart of our people that predates the constitution .  nearly all of us are the sons and daughters of people who took risks to come to build a new life in a new world .  if there is one american character that totally distinguishes us from all other countries , it is that americans are innovators , explorers , inventors and scientists .  we take risks , we try new things ; and for 200 years the future came first to americans , the most dynamic and forward-thinking people in all of human history .  we invented the telephone , the radio , the airplane , we eradicated polio .  americans now receive more nobel prizes in medicine than all other european countries combined .  we stand for innovation and leadership , and this congress should ensure that american patients never have to leave our shores to find a cure .  mr. speaker , i do rise today in strong support of h.r. 810 .  over the past two decades , three-quarters of the scientists who have won the nobel prize in medicine have studied or taught in the united states .  and this is not a coincidence .  our nation has created an environment that values innovation and discovery , especially in biological sciences .  h.r. 810 will help america continue to lead in this crucial field .  of course , there is more at stake in this debate than america 's global standing .  stem cell research holds extraordinary potential to save lives and alleviate human suffering .  i had a father who suffered from parkinson 's , a mother who passed away with alzheimer 's .  and i am all the more convinced that we must pursue this research vigorously , because i believe it does have potential to yield results .  i would argue that h.r. 810 is worthy of our support not just for what it allows but for what it restricts .  the bill requires that embryos be in excess of clinical need .  it does not permit financial compensation for those embryos , and it requires the donor 's written , informed consent .  this legislation appeals to hope , but it insists on caution as well .  h.r. 810 is as thoughtful as it is ambitious .  for that reason i urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i support h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  h.r. 810 is the safest , most ethically and morally sound way to proceed with this potentially life-saving scientific advancement .  this debate is not about whether or not embryonic stem cell research should occur .  the administration is not stopping private embryonic stem cell research .  it just opposes the expansion of public stem cell research .  the private sector is not restricted from such research .  the private sector currently uses frozen embryos which would otherwise be discarded .  corporate entities already have access to 125 new and better embryonic stem cell lines , created after august 9 , 2001 , when the president announced his new stem cell policy .  h.r. 810 expands the number of frozen embryos to be used for stem cell research by the federal government .  federally sponsored research is subject to greater oversight and safeguards and higher ethical standards .  ethical controls over privately funded research are limited .  recent scientific breakthroughs have demonstrated that embryonic stem cell research has life saving potential .  it could result in saving millions of lives .  it could be the answer to the prayers of those who suffer from parkinson 's , diabetes , cancer , heart disease , spinal cord injuries and other debilitating conditions .  recent studies have set back the case for the efficacy of adult stem cells .  embryonic stem cell research will continue with or without the federal government .  this bill expands federal research , which will be subject to greater oversight and safeguards .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 810 , and i want to acknowledge the bipartisan effort that has gone into this legislation and the incredible grass roots movement that has built support for this groundbreaking medical research .  it has been inspirational to see so many members putting aside politics and partisanship to address this issue which affects the lives of millions of americans .  mr. speaker , i am one of those americans .  at age 16 , i was an explorer scout in my hometown police station .  one afternoon , in the police locker room , a gun accidentally discharged .  the bullet severed my spinal cord , and i have been paralyzed ever since .  this experience shapes my perspective in so many ways .  above all , it has given me tremendous appreciation and respect for life .  my life as a quadriplegic is filled with challenges and obstacles , yet i am grateful for every minute .  this gratitude has become a passion , and it has motivated me to help create a culture that values and protects life from its beginning to its end .  to me , being pro-life also means fighting for policies that will eliminate pain and suffering and help people enjoy longer , healthier lives .  and to me , support for embryonic stem cell research is entirely consistent with that position .  what could be more life-affirming than using what otherwise would be discarded to save , extend , and improve countless lives ?  this research offers the opportunity to discover cures and treatments for diseases like parkinson 's , alzheimer 's , als , diabetes , spinal cord injury , and many others .  but it will take not only the talent of our scientists , but also the support of our government to realize its full potential .  we have a responsibility to ensure that this research proceeds , and it does so with ethical safeguards and strict guidelines .  by permitting research only on excess embryos created in the in-vitro fertilization process , and by establishing a clear , voluntary consent process for donors , h.r. 810 meets this responsibility .  stem cell research gives us hope and a reason to believe .  i believe one day a child with diabetes will no longer face a lifetime of painful shots and tests .  i believe one day families will no longer watch in agony as a loved one with parkinson 's or alzheimer 's gradually declines .  and i believe one day i will walk again .  there are few moments in medical history when we can clearly identify a giant step forward in improving countless lives .  we saw it with the discovery of antibiotics and the advent of organ transplants .  mr. speaker , i believe that adult and embryonic stem cell research is another of these great moments .  today we have a historic opportunity to make a difference in the lives of millions of americans and for people around the world .  i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act and h.r. 2520 , the stem cell therapeutic and research act that we debated earlier today .  both bills would expand stem cell research , which holds tremendous promise to curing and treating some of the most devastating diseases and conditions facing americans today .  this issue is about medical research coupled with high ethical standards and providing hope to those most in need -- it should have no role in any party 's political agenda .  in 2001 , president bush announced that for the first time federal funds could be used to support limited research on human embryonic stem cells , specifically `` existing stem cell lines where the life and death decision has already been made. '' under this policy , only 78 embryonic stem cell lines are eligible for use and according to the national institutes of health ( nih ) , only 22 of those lines are viable for human research .  since 2001 , 128 embryonic stem cell lines have been developed that are ineligible for federally funded research .  both bills -- the stem cell therapeutic and research act that would create a new federal program to collect and store umbilical-cord-blood cells and expand the current bone-marrow registry program and the stem cell research enhancement act that would increase the number of stem cell lines that can be used in federally funded research -- establish much-needed ethical standards and expand the possibilities of stem cell research for new treatments and cures .  according to the nih , in the united states more than 4 million people suffer from alzheimer 's disease ; one in every four deaths is from cancer ; and every hour of every day , someone is diagnosed with juvenile ( type 1 ) diabetes .  these brave individuals battling life-threatening and debilitating diseases are not responsible for policy or debate , but they will be the ones most affected by the outcome of today 's vote .  the president was quoted by the associated press over the weekend saying , `` i made it very clear to the congress that the use of federal money , taxpayers ' money to promote science which destroys life in order to save life is -- i 'm against that .  and therefore , if the bill does that , i will veto it. '' this legislation will not create life for the purpose of destruction .  these bills will expand the scope of research that the bush administration has already approved .  it is unfortunate president bush would dash the hopes of so many people looking for medical answers through research .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues join me today in advancing science and supporting h.r. 810 .  congress and the administration must not withdraw from progress , but embrace the immense opportunities that expanded stem cell research can have for the future and wellbeing of our nation 's public health .  mr. speaker , we do not know yet , but the possibility is very real that stem cell research may be the greatest breakthrough in the history of science .  there are deep and profound moral and philosophic issues surrounding the research , but our government should be very cautious about coming down on the wrong side of science , especially when the scientific endeavor is designed to lengthen and ennoble life .  it has been suggested here today that no breakthrough therapies have yet been developed with stem cell research .  this is simply not the case .  using , for example , the microenvironment of human embryonic stem cells , dr .  mary hendricks and her team of researchers at chicago 's memorial research center have developed a methodology to slow the aggressive properties of metastatic cancer cells .  how in heaven 's name can we deny the promise of such research ?  there is consensus at this time in this body and in the research community that scientists should not play god in attempting to clone human beings , but we are at a stage of human existence where there is a practical possibility that a blastocyst that would otherwise be thrown away as waste can , in a petri dish , be used to help solve these incredible diseases , from alzheimer 's to parkinson 's to diabetes to cancer .  if one believes that life matters , the balance of judgment should be to carefully open the door , as this bill , led so beautifully by my good friends the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  , does .  not to open the door is to put our heads in the sands and foreclose the prospect of a better life for many , many americans .  mr. speaker , as an original co-sponsor of h.r. 810 , i rise in support of the stem cell research enhancement act .  i want to applaud my colleagues rep .  castle and rep .  degette for working together to introduce this common sense bi-partisan measure .  mr. speaker , we know that our population is aging .  debilitating chronic diseases like cancer , parkinson 's , alzheimer 's , and diabetes are becoming far more common .  diabetes in particular is a huge problem , and like many other diseases , minority communities are disproportionately affected by it .  in my district in alameda county , approximately 13.4 percent of african americans have been diagnosed with diabetes compared to 4.5 percent of whites .  and the diabetes death rates of latinos and african americans are as high as 2-2.5 times those of whites .  expanding the number of embryonic stem cell lines available for research will assist scientists to develop therapeutic treatments and cures for diabetes and a range of other diseases .  by passing this bill we will not only help to improve the health and well being of the public , but we will also help to eliminate future chronic health care costs and improve the health of our economy as a whole .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the stem cell research enhancement act .  the american people need and want a carefully crafted stem cell research policy that allows us to seek scientific breakthroughs .  we do not have such a policy today .  the stem cell policy established by president bush is severely restrictive and arbitrary .  the national institutes of health has reported that of the 78 stem cell lines promised by president bush , only 22 lines meet the president 's criteria for use .  a number of those lines have developed genetic mutations which will make research on them useless .  the vast majority of the remaining usable lines are in other countries that have shown little interest in making them available to u.s. researchers .  as a result , our researchers are falling behind their counterparts in other countries , and our citizens are watching their hopes for cures within their lifetimes slip away .  what is at stake are potential cures for diseases such as alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , diabetes and cancer .  the stem cell research enhancement act expands the number of stem cell lines that are available for federally funded research .  the bill also implements strong ethical requirements on stem cell lines that would be eligible for federally funded research .  this is an issue that can impact families across america , crossing all lines of income , political persuasion or religious affiliation .  furthermore , delay in effectively resolving this issue could for countless americans be a matter of basic health or indeed life .  keeping in mind the essential federal role in critical basic health research , i believe that it is essential that we support this bill so our country can continue in the lead in exploring the frontiers of science and medicine .  mr. speaker , i support h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act .  stem cell research holds the potential to improve the lives of millions of americans suffering from diseases like cancer , heart disease , and diabetes .  i believe we should do all we can to support this research , and it is why i am so frustrated at the bush administration 's attempts to stop it .  nih said that u.s. scientists are falling behind because of the bush 2001 limitations on stem cell research .  elizabeth nable of the national heart , lung and blood institute said , `` because u.s. researchers who depend on federal funds lack access to newer human embryonic stem cell lines , they are at a technological disadvantage relative to researchers funded by california , as well as investigators in asia and europe .  my home state of california has already moved ahead of the federal government by establishing the institute for regenerative medicine , which will devote $ 3 billion to embryonic stem cell research over the next 10 years .  this bill is a modest proposal compared to california 's , but it is still an important step ; and that is why it is supported by all the major educational research institutions in california .  i include their letter of support in the record .  let us not drive this research overseas .  may 19 , 2005 .  dear representative lofgren : we are writing to express our support for changing federal policy on human embryonic stem cell research to allow an expansion in available cell lines .  as you probably know , a vote on legislation that would alter current policy is expected in the coming weeks , and we urge your `'yes '' vote .  embryonic stem cells hold the potential for new cures and therapies for an array of life-threatening diseases affecting millions of americans across the nation .  this potential will be enhanced by the bipartisan stem cell research enhancement act ( h.r. 810 ) , introduced by representatives michael castle ( r-de ) and diana degette ( d-co ) and co-sponsored by more than 200 members of the house of representatives .  the castle-degette bill would expand current policy to allow federal funding for research with stem cell lines discovered after the mandated august 9 , 2001 , cut-off date as well as lines derived in the future .  with regard to future stem cell lines , the bill applies only to lines derived from days-old blastocysts that otherwise would be discarded from in vitro fertilization clinics , but that instead are voluntarily donated to research by consenting individuals , without compensation .  further , this legislation would ensure the development of ethical guidelines for research with embryonic stem cell lines .  california has moved ahead by establishing the institute for regenerative medicine , which will devote $ 3 billion to embryonic stem cell research over the next ten years .  the provisions within h.r. 810 are more restrictive than those of the california initiative ; however , h.r. 810 is crucial because it will make a significant difference to nationwide federal research programs .  this expansion in policy will further facilitate and accelerate the research conducted in our state .  when the current federal embryonic stem cell research policy went into effect in 2001 , the notion was that 78 cell lines would be available for research .  currently , only 22 are actually available to researchers ; many others have been found unsuitable .  furthermore , a number of the available lines are entangled with commercial interests making the cells too expensive or impossible for nih-funded investigators to obtain .  for these reasons , the existing embryonic stem cell lines do not provide a sufficient supply to advance the research to its full potential .  embryonic stem cells offer the potential to reverse diseases and disabilities experienced by millions of americans .  stem cell research is still very new .  thus , we have a collective responsibility -- scientists , university leaders , and government leaders -- to support the exploration of the promising possibilities of both embryonic and adult stem cell research for curing and preventing disease .  please support scientific advancement and the possibility of new cures by voting `` yes '' on h.r. 810 to expand federal stem cell research policy .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; robert c. dynes , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; president , university of california. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; steven b. sample , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; president , university of southern california. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; david baltimore , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; president , california institute of technology. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; john l. hennessy , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; president , stanford university. & lt ; /em & gt ; mr. speaker , i am proud to be a cosponsor of h.r. 810 , and i rise in strong support of this critical legislation .  my colleagues , what an extraordinary moment we have before us .  embryonic stem cells have the potential not just to treat some of the most devastating diseases and conditions , but to actually cure them .  at issue here is the fundamental value of saving lives , a value that we all share regardless of race , culture or religion .  but this promise exists only if researchers have access to the science that holds the most potential , and are free to explore , with appropriate ethical guidelines , medical advances never before imagined possible .  i also sit on the committee that funds the national institutes of health with the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  .  i am not a scientist , i am not a doctor .  but as i sit on that committee and we hear the testimony , one after another , of people who are suffering , who have lost their loved ones , who are on the verge of losing another loved one , look at the 200 major groups who are supporting this legislation .  and let us listen to them .  i am proud to be a cosponsor of h.r. 810 , and i rise in strong support of this critical legislation .  my colleagues , what an extraordinary moment we have before us .  embryonic stem cells have the potential not just to treat some of the most devastating diseases and conditions , but to actually cure them .  at issue here is the fundamental value of saving lives -- a value that we all share regardless of race , culture , or religion .  but this promise exists only if researchers have access to the science that holds the most potential , and are free to explore -- with appropriate ethical guidelines -- medical advances never before imagined possible .  there is no question that scientific advancement often comes with moral uncertainties .  we should and have ensured that difficult ethical and social questions are examined and debated before passing this legislation .  in my judgment we now have a moral obligation to pursue each opportunity and provide crucial funding , support and oversight for this critical research .  like many of you , i believe that strong guidelines must be in place with vigorous oversight from the nih and congress before allowing federally-funded embryonic stem cell research .  with appropriate guidelines we can ensure that the research with the most promise for medical achievement can be fully realized .  while adult stem cells have yielded important discoveries , the evidence from scientists themselves suggests they do n't have the same potential as embryonic stem cells .  the legislation before us today would strengthen the standards guiding embryonic stem cell research and would ensure that embryos originally created for the purpose of in vitro fertilization could be made available for research only with the consent of the donor .  let me be clear .  this legislation retains the current restrictions on creating human embryos for the purpose of research .  so today i ask my colleagues to be as determined to find a cure as science allows us to be .  with the appropriate guidelines in place , we are closer than ever to remarkable discoveries and on the brink of providing hope to millions of individuals who otherwise have none .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i have never seen such a well-attended debate , which shows the importance of this issue ; and i rise today on behalf of my father who died of parkinson 's disease .  i also rise today on behalf of the millions of americans like me who have watched their loved ones battle the ravages of some dreaded disease .  i ask my colleagues , how many more lives must be ended or ravaged until our government gives researchers the wherewithal to simply do their jobs ?  although there are no guarantees , many scientists have told me that embryonic stem cell research offers the best and only hope to discover a cure for many , many dreaded diseases .  embryonic research offers scientists the opportunity to extend life and the quality of life for future generations of americans .  as we are debating , other countries , other states , other people are moving forward with research with all speed .  we should pass the degette/castle bill .  life is too precious to wait .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  as a founder and co-chair of the congressional working group on parkinson 's disease , i support this legislation that will expand the number of stem cell lines that are available for federally funded research .  i believe this bill will reopen the doors to scientific inquiry , allowing us to be able , once again , to utilize embryonic stem cells while adhering to strict ethical guidelines .  i am and continue to be an opponent of human cloning .  however , i recognize that we must move forward with ethical research that could lead to new drug therapies .  we owe this to those suffering from parkinson 's disease , heart disease , stroke , diabetes , and lou gehrig 's disease .  and we owe this to scientists who are eager to explore new frontiers of science and medicine , but who are restrained by federal restrictions .  mr. speaker , i have met with doctors , scientists , and researchers in my district 's leading medical institutions who warn of a `` brain drain '' as their best and brightest relocate to places where funding for embryonic stem cell research is not restricted .  i have spoken with lawmakers in the state of new york , who have garnered $ 1 billion in embryonic stem cell research funding , but without federal funding , stem cell research will move forward without crucial oversight and guidelines .  i have been persuaded by directors at the national institutes of health who have spoken out against the white house policy on stem cells .  and i have been moved by the pleas of my constituents who are eager to find cures for suffering loved ones .  mr. speaker , this is a mandate .  in 2003 , over 900 , 000 americans died of heart disease and more than 550 , 000 succumbed to cancer .  i am sure that many in this chamber have seen friends suffer through the misery of cancer and the indignities of chemotherapy .  who among us has not had a parent or grandparent look at us with vacant eyes because alzheimer 's has stolen their memory away from them ?  too many of us have watched as our children with juvenile diabetes hold back tears as they give themselves insulin injections each day .  mr. speaker , it does not have to be this way .  healing our children , family , and friends is a bipartisan issue .  in fact , it is a moral imperative .  mr. speaker , twelve million baby boomers will have alzheimer 's .  three million baby boomers will suffer from parkinson 's disease .  juvenile diabetes , lou gehrig 's disease , spinal cord injuries will wreak havoc on the daily lives of millions of american families .  these diseases are going to bankrupt the health care system of our country unless we take action .  today , we can take dramatic action , a step , to deal with this looming crisis .  president bush has threatened to use his first veto to prevent scientists from using federal funds to search for these cures .  this is wrong .  stem cell research is the light of life , the way out of the darkness , the life-giving , life-enhancing , life-extending path to hope .  hope is the most important four-letter word in the language .  we must vote for hope , vote for life , vote for a brighter future for all of our loved ones .  vote for hope for a small girl forced to stick a needle three times a day into her young arm .  vote for hope for a beloved mother whose loss of balance leads to falls in the night .  vote for hope for a spouse who realizes that his memory of life and family are dissolving into a forgetful haze .  vote `` yes '' so that the next generation of children will have to turn to the history books to know that there ever was such a thing as juvenile diabetes or parkinson 's or alzheimer 's or any of these plagues that affect our nation today and are going to turn into a crisis in the next generation .  mr. speaker , while europe and singapore and california and korea are moving forward in an effort to relieve human suffering , the united states congress , 435 theologians , have gathered here to decide a values decision .  we have no guidance .  there was no in vitro fertilization or stem cell research when jesus walked on the earth .  we are left to make the decision on our own .  the decision comes down to this : a man and woman come in to a physician .  he presents some semen .  she presents some eggs .  they put them in a jar or they put them in a petri plate , and it becomes an embryo .  they have several of them ; so they use one .  they put it in the mother .  she has a baby .  and there are a bunch left .  now what shall we do with those ?  shall we throw them down the sink , wash them away , or shall we use them to help people who have terribly debilitating diseases ?  that is what this issue is about .  like the last speaker , i am a physician .  i have counseled people who were dying with lou gehrig 's disease .  to watch somebody drown in their own secretions , someone that you know and care about , and then come in here and say we are not going to look for a way to relieve that kind of agony , we will not worry about a 13-year-old kid who gets diabetes and has to give himself thousands and thousands of shots and loses the length of life that most of us expect because of that disease ; we will say to them , well , jesus wanted us to do this .  i do not remember the lord ever saying that .  i do not ever remember his saying , i gave you a brain , you human beings .  i do not want you to figure anything out .  i do not want you to make it any better .  this is a perfectly good values judgment on which everybody should vote `` yes . '' mr. speaker , i am pleased to support h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  this legislation takes the critical first step in expanding the number of stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research .  for years , the united states has been the preeminent world leader in the field of biotechnology .  we have made extraordinary advancements in the treatment , management and prevention of a wide range of disabilities .  it 's nearly impossible to read a newspaper without hearing of some new breakthrough -- drug cocktails for aids patients ; gene therapy treatments ; new medical devices .  these advancements are cause for celebration .  our mothers and fathers , our spouses , children and grandchildren are benefiting like never before .  they are living longer , healthier lives due to our investments in scientific research .  much like this earlier research , the potential benefits from stem cells are almost limitless .  and as policymakers , we have the rare opportunity to help further scientific innovation that , with the proper research and development , could produce better treatments -- or even cures -- for diseases like diabetes , parkinson 's disease , and cancer .  despite some arguments that we have heard today , recent developments have proven that we are not far off from recognizing the true potential of this research .  in fact , just last week , scientists in south korea successfully created the world 's first human embryonic stem cells that are patient-specific .  this advancement was applauded around the world as a major step in the effort to produce cell-based therapies that wo n't be rejected by the body 's immune system .  and in my home state of massachusetts , viacell and new world laboratories , two small biotech companies , have made notable progress in their research on spinal cord injuries and tissue regeneration .  though no one can predict the outcome of embryonic stem cell research , what is certain is that without federal support , we will never fully recognize it 's potential .  we are at a pivotal point in our nation 's history , and i hope that my colleagues will carefully consider this issue , leaving out partisan politics .  with federal support , this research could have a real and tangible impact on millions of lives in this country .  our nation 's current policy severely limits scientific research , and we must not continue on this dangerous course .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting h.r. 810 .  mr dingell .  mr. speaker , i support h.r. 810 , the `` stem cell research and enhancement act of 2005. '' let us be very clear about why we are here today .  we are here to decide whether our nation will move forward in the search for treatments and therapies that will cure a multitude of dreaded diseases that afflict an estimated 128 million americans .  today , millions of americans suffer from alzheimer 's disease , parkinson 's disease , spinal cord injuries or spinal dysfunction , and diabetes .  and today , along with the tremendous number of americans living with cancer , approximately 1.5 million new cases were diagnosed in the united states last year .  today , we can vote for h.r. 810 , and in doing so , choose to save lives and help to end the suffering of so many americans .  stem cells are the foundation cells for every organ , tissue , and cell in the body .  embryonic stem cells , unlike adult stem cells , possess a unique ability to develop into any type of cell .  embryonic stem cell research holds the potential for treating a variety of diseases such as lou gehrig 's disease , parkinson 's disease , alzheimer 's disease , autism , cystic fibrosis , heart disease , diabetes , multiple sclerosis , and osteoporosis , as well as spinal cord injuries .  h.r. 810 would impose strict ethical guidelines for embryonic stem cell research and would lift the arbitrary restriction limiting funds to only some embryonic stem cell lines created before august 10 , 2001 .  by removing this arbitrary restriction , h.r. 810 will ensure that researchers can not only continue their work to prolong or save lives , but also conduct such research using newer , less contaminated , more diverse , and more numerous embryonic stem cells .  h.r. 810 does not allow federal funding for the creation or destruction of embryos .  this bill only allows for research on embryonic stem cell lines retrieved from embryos created for reproductive purposes that would otherwise be discarded .  this point is critical : if these embryos are not used for stem cell research , they will be destroyed .  former first lady nancy reagan once said , `` science has presented us with a hope called stem cell research , which may provide our scientists with many answers that for so long have been beyond our grasp .  i just do n't see how we can turn our backs on this .  we have lost so much time already .  i just really ca n't bear to lose any more. '' let us not turn our backs on this important research and the 128 million americans who could benefit from it .  let us not lose any more time .  let us pass h.r. 810 , the `` stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 . '' mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act , to put science and compassion ahead of ideology and fear .  the promise of embryonic stem cells is that they alone have the potential to develop into any kind of body tissue , including blood , brain , muscle , organ , or nerve tissue .  scientists believe that this unique ability might lead to breakthroughs in a number of illnesses that are now untreatable .  over 100 million americans suffer from diseases and conditions that may one day be treated using stem cell therapies , including alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , juvenile diabetes , lou gehrig 's disease , severe bums , and spinal cord injuries .  for the very reason that we do not yet know what kind of treatments stem cell research will yield , it would be unwise not to explore the possibilities .  as one researcher at harvard medical school and boston 's children 's hospital recently wrote in the new england journal of medicine , `` the science of human embryonic stem cells is in its infancy. '' restricting stem cell research now `` threaten [ s ] to starve the field at a critical stage. '' it 's critical to understand the science of stem cell research to weigh the moral and ethical issues involved .  this bill allows funding of research on stem cells that are harnessed from fertility clinics .  in vitro fertilization is a technology that has allowed millions of couples to share in the joy of childbirth .  it results in the creation of embryos that are never implanted into the womb , never grow to be more than a handful of cells , and would otherwise be discarded .  harnessing stem cells for medical research from fertility clinics is a compassionate , pro-family , and pro-life position .  as one of the world 's foremost centers of medical research , massachusetts has much at stake in the stem cell debate .  not only are our hospitals , research facilities , and institutions of higher learning on the cutting edge of conquering disease , they are also major economic drivers keeping us competitive in the global economy and employing tens of thousands of people .  massachusetts has over 250 biotech firms .  that is more than all of western europe combined .  if we continue the current ban on stem cell research , it does not mean that research will stop elsewhere .  but it would put america -- the world 's most powerful engine of innovation and progress -- on the sidelines .  mr. speaker , america should be leading the world in using our compassion and our scientific knowledge to develop lifesaving therapies .  i urge support for h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i rise in very strong support of the stem cell research enhancement act , which will expand the federal policy and implement stricter ethical guidelines for this research .  embryonic stem cell research is necessary in discovering the causes of a myriad of genetic diseases , to testing new drug therapies more efficiently on laboratory tissue instead of human volunteers , and to staving off the ravages of disease with the regeneration of our bodies ' essential organs .  president george w. bush 's policy on stem cell research limits federal funding only to embryonic stem cell lines that were derived by august 9 , 2001 , the date of his policy announcement .  of the 78 stem cell lines promised by president bush , only 22 are available to researchers .  unfortunately these stem cell lines are aged and contaminated with mouse feeder cells , making their therapeutic use for humans uncertain .  according to the majority of scientists , if these stem cell lines were transplanted into people , they would provoke dangerous viruses in humans .  what is even more disturbing is the fact that there are at least 125 new stem cell lines , which are more pristine than the lines currently available on the national institutes of health registry , which are ineligible for federally-funded research because they were derived after august 9 , 2001 .  this restrictive embryonic stem cell research policy is making it increasingly more difficult to attract new scientists to this area of research because of concerns that funding restrictions will keep this research from being successful .  the stem cell research enhancement act does not change the current policy on the use of federal funds ; this measure simply seeks to lift the cutoff date for lines available for research .  h.r. 810 will also strengthen the ethical standards guiding the federal research on stem cell lines and will ensure that embryos donated for stem cell research were created for the purposes of in vitro fertilization , in excess of clinical need , would have otherwise be discarded and involved no financial inducement .  contrary to what opponents have been saying , the stem cell research enhancement act will not federally fund the destruction of embryos .  h.r. 810 is clear that unused embryos will be used for embryonic stem cell research only by decision of the donor .  no federally-funded research will be supported by this measure if the embryos were created and destroyed solely for this purpose .  in february 2005 , the civil society institute conducted a nationwide survey of 1 , 022 adults and found that 70 percent supported bipartisan federal legislation to promote embryonic stem cell research .  let public interest triumph over ideological special interests .  public interest is best served when the medical and the scientific community is free to exercise their professional judgment in extending and enhancing human life .  i urge all my colleagues to vote in favor of the stem cell research enhancement act .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding his time .  you know , you can not divorce medical research from medical ethics .  and as such , it is critically important we are dealing here with medical facts .  first of all , although many members and the public and the media seem to get this wrong , the truth is , i believe we will have probably close to unanimous support for using federal dollars for stem cell research , but it is important to understand the different types : adult stem cell , which has much promise to harvest and grow these , although it has some risk for infections and other problems .  some 30 , 000 people have been treated .  umbilical cord , which is pluripotent .  it can be used in multiple ways .  over 6 , 000 cases have been treated .  frozen embryo research , zero .  and cloning has its own problems with that as well .  in the area of umbilical cord blood , one of the cases , because in my practice , i oftentimes dealt with children with developmental disabilities .  one case of the new england journal of medicine reports 90 percent success rate with hurley 's syndrome , a developmental disorder , autosomal dominant one , which ends up in severe developmental delays and death .  those are incredible results , incredible results that come from looking at the facts of what cord blood stem cell research is about .  let us not distort this discussion and confuse cord blood and embryonic , because when you are using cord blood , umbilical blood , you are not killing anyone .  you are not limiting or destroying a life .  you are taking something that has been discarded in the normal process of pregnancy and birth .  let us help support the continuation of this vital research which does not just show promise , but shows demonstrable results .  and it does not involve the ending of any life in the process .  this is where we should continue our research .  this is where we must continue our work .  this is where we must take our stand today , to continue to support medical research that is important .  look also at medical ethics .  mr. speaker , i recently had a granddaughter born .  i looked at that little baby , and i was in love with her when i went to ultrasound and we saw her , even before she was born .  when i saw the little snowflake children , i thought about their humanness .  i thought about what joy they brought to their families .  i thought about little children that needed to be comforted when they were hurt , little children that wanted to be put to bed at night with a kiss and a story , their wonderful humanness , and i thought about what the american people think of babies and how we cherish them .  when i see these little children , i know their intrinsic value ; and how we treat people , in whatever form of development , depends on how we perceive them .  the embryo is a human being at an early stage of development .  when we talk to many who have great knowledge about this , and i appreciate the doctors in our presence , we should never spend the american taxpayers ' dollars to take the life of an innocent human being .  as i look at this bill , i know it is very complex ; but we need to always support human life .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 810 .  i believe in the transforming and the lifesaving power of research and science , and i have seen firsthand how cutting-edge research can make a big difference in the lives of americans who suffer with all sorts of diseases , and , i understand the value of federally funded research .  i also support stem cell research .  however , this debate is not about the merits of scientific discovery .  there is no ban on research for the limited number of ivf embryos on which such research would even be possible .  this debate is about federal tax dollars and whether these dollars should be spent on the destruction of embryos , which i do not support .  supporters of this bill say we have nothing to lose by destroying existing embryos with federal money because , after all , some of them will probably be discarded anyway .  i would ask my colleagues to recall the reason why we do not conduct scientific research on federal death row inmates .  are n't they going to die anyway ?  by all accounts , death row inmates are not innocent lives -- but we do n't conduct destructive experiments on them because it would be ethically reprehensible .  we certainly do n't dedicate taxpayer funds for that purpose .  those who 've studied the implications of an embryonic stem cell research expansion know full well that federal funding for the destruction of existing ivf embryos is no silver bullet for disease treatment .  but that 's how the bill will be sold on the floor today .  h.r. 810 is merely the first step in an effort to spend federal money -- not only on the destruction , but on the creation of cloned embryos for research .  i ask my colleagues to join me in opposing this bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the debate on stem cell research challenges all of us to think carefully about the value we place on human life .  many of us turn to our faith traditions for guidance and wisdom .  none of us has the right to legislate our religious beliefs and impose them on others .  but as members look to the teachings of their faiths for guidance , i ask them to remember that not all faiths hold that stem cell research is the enemy of life .  the religious traditions of many of us do not tell us that a 14-day-old blastocyst has the same moral significance as a human being and do tell us that the obligation to preserve life , which includes the obligation to cure disease and alleviate human suffering , is paramount .  i understand and respect the faith of all of my colleagues .  it is a sincere faith that reveres life .  i ask them to accord that same respect to the faiths of others .  unfortunately , words have sometimes been used carelessly , and these words sometimes denigrate the faith of others .  when the teachings of a faith are described as `` a culture of death '' because they hold that the potential to save and heal human lives is an integral part of valuing human life , that faith and its adherence are being slandered .  how dare anyone slander the faiths of many americans as `` a culture of death. '' god does not speak to one faith alone .  we hear lots of speeches about respecting people of faith and the need to bring faith into the public square .  the people who make those speeches should respect all faiths .  we should vote our consciences , but we should not denigrate the faith and consciences of the millions of americans who seek to preserve life and end suffering and who believe that embryonic stem cell research can save lives and therefore embodies the highest morality .  mr. speaker , the issue of embryonic stem cell research places humanity on the frontier of medical science and at the outer edge of moral theology .  on the side of science there is much hope , even expectation that extraordinarily effective therapies will be developed due to a wide range of maladies from diabetes to parkinson 's , spinal cord injury and a host of others .  progress has been achieved in the laboratory in animal studies and in human application .  much has yet to be learned , however , about adverse outcomes , which is why scientists proceed cautiously without overpromising and with respect for moral considerations of their research .  the latter gives me the greatest pause .  an editorial in america magazine said it well : `` the debate over embryonic stem cell research can not be fully resolved because it is ignited by irreconcilable views of what reverence for life requires. '' let us recall louise brown , the first test tube baby .  her life began as a single cell , fertilized egg , in vitro .  there are many leftover potential louise browns , potential human beings as cryogenic embryos conceived in the laboratory .  are they to be discarded or , can they be ethically used for stem cell research ?  that is the moral theology issue that we must resolve .  i can not get over the reality that human life is created in creating an embryo , whether in vitro or whether in utero .  each of us has to decide the morality of this unique aspect of the issue .  but i can not get over the moral theology underpinning of this extraordinary research on the frontier of science that we are tinkering with human life .  and we must not tinker further .  we know not where we head .  it is between god and us .  let us resolve any uncertainty in favor of life .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman very much and applaud him for his effort .  i have been able to listen to most of what was said tonight .  obviously , the gentleman has a tremendous depth of scientific understanding .  i do not have that depth , but i would just like to reflect on the dilemma that many members will be placed in tomorrow as we decide on this particular vote .  as the gentleman has mentioned , those who are in favor of embryonic stem cell research , many of them are people who have children who have juvenile diabetes .  there are many who have parents or others with parkinson 's or alzheimer 's and lou gehrig 's disease and so on .  we have heard from these people personally , and our hearts go out to them .  we have heard that 400 , 000 embryos are going to be discarded anyway , and on and on and on .  yet , on the other side of the argument , as the gentleman has amplified so well , there are some other dilemmas .  one thing that is of concern to me is when is a life a life ?  obviously , we would not take a 2-year-old and do any harm to that child ; we would not experiment on that child .  we would not do it to a 1-year-old .  probably , in many cases , most of us would say an 8-month-old fetus would not be appropriate to do some harm to .  but where is it that you draw the line ?  is it at 6 months ?  is it at 4 months ?  is it at 1 month ?  is it at 1 week ?  so therein lies the horns of the dilemma .  so many of us are of the persuasion that you really can not draw that line .  when a life is a life is at conception , and therefore you have to respect life .  there is a certain sanctity of life .  so , again , the arguments will range wide and far tomorrow .  some will say that embryos can be adopted , and they can .  so whether we have 400 , 000 or 20 , 000 , maybe 1 , 000 , maybe 10 , 000 , maybe 15 , 000 , maybe more than that will be adopted out .  many will argue that adult stem cells are more productive in research .  as the gentleman has pointed out so effectively here , some of that has to do with the length of time of research .  there is no question .  but there is no question that adequate resources and adult stem cell research will produce results .  there is also the question about private funding .  there is no restriction on private funding on embryonic stem cell research .  if it is so promising , then why has the private sector not stepped up , because obviously there are huge profits to be made if you have some type of a cure for juvenile diabetes or alzheimer 's or whatever ; and yet we do not seem to see that afoot .  then i guess the last thing that i would mention is that there is the ethical question , should we use public funds in doing research that is so divisive , that has so many people on both sides of the fence ?  it seems we should have more unanimity in using public funds to do this type of research .  so i applaud the gentleman for the proposed legislation that he has before us , because in this legislation is the prospect of using embryonic stem cells without destroying the embryo .  of course , that removes the dilemma on both sides .  so we think that the legislation , even though it is in its early stages , certainly has great promise and is one that we ought to pay very close heed to and one that would certainly be much more appealing to me than the other alternatives at the present time .  mr. speaker , i just wanted to come down briefly and let the gentleman from maryland ( mr. bartlett )  know i appreciate his efforts .  i have read the white house white paper .  i understand most of what is in there .  one other thing that is also mentioned is the fact that when these frozen embryos are thawed out , many of them die , as the gentleman mentioned ; and some of those apparently will yield stem cells in the early stages .  anyway , mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman again for this legislation .  mr. speaker , the issue of government funding of embryonic stem cell research is one of the most divisive issues facing the country .  while i sympathize with those who see embryonic stem cell research as providing a path to a cure for the dreadful diseases that have stricken so many americans , i strongly object to forcing those americans who believe embryonic stem cell research is immoral to subsidize such research with their tax dollars .  the main question that should concern congress today is does the united states government have the constitutional authority to fund any form of stem cell research .  the clear answer to that question is no .  a proper constitutional position would reject federal funding for stem cell research , while allowing the individual states and private citizens to decide whether to permit , ban , or fund this research .  therefore , i will vote against h.r. 810 .  unfortunately , many opponents of embryonic stem cell research are disregarding the constitution by supporting h.r. 2520 , an `` acceptable '' alternative that funds umbilical-cord stem cell research .  while this approach is much less objectionable than funding embryonic stem cell research , it is still unconstitutional .  therefore , i must also oppose h.r. 2520 .  federal funding of medical research guarantees the politicization of decisions about what types of research for what diseases will be funded .  thus , scarce resources will be allocated according to who has the most effective lobby rather than allocated on the basis of need or even likely success .  federal funding will also cause researchers to neglect potential treatments and cures that do not qualify for federal funds .  ironically , an example of this process may be found in h.r. 2520 ; some research indicates that adult stem cells may be as useful or more useful to medical science than either embryonic or umbilical cord stem cells .  in fact , the supporters of embryonic stem cell research may have a point when they question the effectiveness of umbilical cord mr. speaker , there is no question that h.r. 810 violates basic constitutional principles by forcing taxpayers to subsidize embryonic stem cell research .  however , h.r. 2520 also exceeds congress 's constitutional authority and may even retard effective adult stem cell research .  therefore , i urge my colleagues to vote against both h.r. 810 and h.r. 2520 .  mr. speaker , this is an important day for us in congress .  i myself am deeply indebted to the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  and the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  for their great leadership and courage in bringing this legislation to the floor .  i thank the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  .  this is important legislation because every family in america , every family in america is just one phone call away , one diagnosis , one accident away from needing the benefits of stem cell research .  we want all of the research to proceed , the umbilical cord research that we talked about this morning , and adult stem cell research .  that is all very important .  but we must have the embryonic stem cell research if we are truly going to have science have the potential it has to cure diseases .  i served for many years , probably 10 , on the labor-hhs subcommittee which funds the national institutes of health .  so i have studied this issue over the years .  what we are doing here today is recognizing the miraculous power to cure that exists at the national institutes of health and in other institutes of excellence in research throughout our country .  we are recognizing the miraculous , almost biblical power that science has to cure .  and what we have said , what we are saying here today is nothing that should not be considered of value .  what we are saying is when these embryos are in excess of the needs of in vitro fertilization , rather than be destroyed , they will be used for basic biomedical research .  it is interesting to me because when i first came to the congress , some of the same forces out there that are against this embryonic stem cell research were very much against in vitro fertilization .  it is difficult to imagine that now , but they were against in vitro fertilization and considered it not to be on high moral ground .  the research is going to occur with federal funding or without .  it should not occur without high ethical standards that the federal funding can bring to it .  in order for our country to be preeminent in science , we must have the most talented , the most excellent scientists .  they will not be attracted to a situation which limits scientific inquiry .  as we all know , in science as in business , talent attracts capital , the capital to build the labs and all that is needed to do the research , and those labs in turn attract the excellent scientists , and that makes us first in the world , preeminent in science .  we can not allow this important endeavor to go offshore .  i am particularly proud of my state of california where the people of california in a bipartisan way , as we are doing today , voted a commitment of resources to invest in embryonic stem cell research .  we in california will become the regenerative capital of america , indeed , probably of the world .  but this should be happening all over the country , and it should not depend on the local initiative of the state .  that is good , but it should be coming from the leadership of the federal government with the ethical standards that go with it .  we have ethical standards in california .  they should be uniform throughout our country .  to some , this debate may seem like a struggle between faith and science .  while i have the utmost respect , and the gentlemen know i do , for those who oppose this bill on moral grounds , i believe faith and science have at least one thing in common : both are searches for truth .  america has room for both faith and science .  indeed , with the great potential for medical research , science has the power to answer the prayers of america 's families .  i believe strongly in the power of prayer ; but part of that prayer is for a cure , and science can provide that .  many religious leaders endorse the castle/degette bill because of their respect for life and because they believe science , within the bounds of ethics and religious beliefs , can save lives and improve its quality .  groups as diverse as the united church of christ , the union for reform judaism , the united methodist church , the episcopal church , and the union of orthodox jewish congregations of america all support this bill .  the union of orthodox jewish congregations of america says the traditional jewish perspective emphasizes the potential to save and heal human lives is an integral part of valuing human life .  the episcopal church in its letter in support of this legislation says : `` as stewards of creation , we are called to help men and renew the world in many ways .  the episcopal church celebrates medical research as this research expands our knowledge of god 's creation and empowers us to bring potential healing to those who suffer from disease and disability. '' this is what they wrote , and much more , in support of this legislation .  it is our duty to bring hope to the sick and the disabled , not to bind the hands of those who can bring them hope .  i believe god guided our researchers to discover the stem cells power to heal .  this bill will enable science to live up to its potential to again answer the prayers of america 's families .  i urge all of my colleagues to support this bill , thank all of our colleagues on both sides of this issue for their very dignified approach to how we are dealing with this legislation today , but also say that today is a historic day , that the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  have given us the opportunity to move forward , again to answer the prayers of america 's families , to meet their needs , to allow the science to use its biblical power to cure ; and for that i am deeply in their debt .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i commend the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  for his visionary legislation , the stem cell research act .  there is such enormous promise , mr. speaker , in adult stem cell research , the ethical research that has been under way for decades and has produced to date treatments to nearly 67 diseases including sickle cell , leukemia , osteoporosis , just to name a few .  even last october , a korean woman who had been paralyzed for 19 years took a few steps for reporters in seoul with the aid of a walker and ethical adult cord blood stem cells injected into her spine .  i just spoke today to a young man in my congressional district who was injured last saturday night and now faces a lifetime in a wheelchair .  i can tell you , having spoken to his parents , i would do anything to help that brave young man out of that chair .  i would do anything except fund the destruction of human embryos for research .  president kennedy said : `` to lead is to choose '' and today congress will choose and should choose to promote ethical healing by adopting the stem cell research act , to prevent the erosion of the principle that all human life , even embryonic human life , is sacred .  say `` yes '' to ethical adult stem cell research and `` no '' to funding the destruction of human embryos for scientific advancement .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in respectful opposition to this sincerely conceived , but ill-founded , legislation known as castle-degette , a bill that authorizes the use of federal tax dollars to fund the destruction of human embryos for scientific research .  as we begin this debate , i am confident we will hear the supporters of this bill argue in the name of president ronald reagan , that somehow this research is consistent with his long-held views on the sanctity of life .  but it was ronald reagan who wrote : `` we can not diminish the value of one category of human , the unborn , without diminishing the value of all human life. '' the supporters will also argue that this is a debate between science and ideology , that destroying human embryos for research is necessary to cure a whole host of maladies , from spinal cord injuries to parkinson 's .  but the facts suggest otherwise .  as members will hear to date , embryonic stem cell research has not produced a single medical treatment , where ethical adult cell research has produced some 67 medical miracles .  physicians on our side of the aisle will make the case for the ethical alternative of adult stem cell research , and congress today has already voted to greatly expand funding in this area .  but the debate over the legitimacy or the potential of embryonic stem cell research is actually not the point of this debate .  we are here simply to decide whether congress should take the taxpayer dollars of millions of pro-life americans and use them to fund the destruction of human embryos for research .  this debate is really not about whether embryonic stem cell research should be legal .  sadly , embryonic stem cell research is completely legal in this country and has been going on at universities and research facilities for years .  the proponents of this legislation do not just want to be able to do embryonic stem cell research .  they want me to pay for it .  and like 43 percent of the american people in a survey just out today , i have a problem with that .  you see , i believe that life begins at conception and that a human embryo is human life .  i believe it is morally wrong to create human life to destroy it for research , and i further believe it is morally wrong to take the tax dollars of millions of pro-life americans who believe , as i do , that human life is sacred , and use it to fund the destruction of human embryos for research .  this debate then is not really about what an embryo is .  this debate is about who we are as a nation , not will we respect the sanctity of life , but will we respect the deeply held moral beliefs of nearly half of the people of this nation who find the destruction of human embryos for scientific research to be morally wrong .  despite what is uttered in this debate today , i say again , this debate is not about whether we should allow research .  this debate is not about whether we should allow research that involves the destruction of human embryos .  this debate is about who pays for it , and it is my fervent hope and prayer as we stand at this crossroads between science and the sanctity of life that we will choose life .  this morning on capitol hill i was surrounded by dozens of `` snowflake babies , '' some 81 children who were born from frozen embryos , the throw-away material we will hear about today .  as i spoke over the cries and cooing of those little fragile lives , i could not help but think of the ancient text : `` i have set before you life and earth , blessings and curses , now choose life so that you and your children may live. '' let this congress choose life and reject federal funding for the destruction of human embryos for research .  mr. speaker , i am a big supporter of stem cell research .  but i do not support the dissecting and destruction of living human embryos to do so .  steve johnson from reading , pennsylvania , agrees with me .  a bicycle incident , an accident , he had 11 years ago replaced his bike with a wheelchair .  he has heard that embryonic stem cells might help him walk again .  for steve , though , that is unacceptable , using embryos .  the way that h.r. 810 would find those cells is through the destruction of ivf living embryos .  he and his wife , kate , adopted his daughter , zara , as an embryo from an ivf clinic when she was just a frozen embryo .  and h.r. 810 would have killed zara as an embryo for her stem cells .  there are 20 others like this child here in town today -- the `` snowflakes '' -- babies who developed from embryos given by their biological parents to a couple unable to conceive on their own .  if h.r. 810 were law , there is a good chance they would not be here at all .  they are living human embryos , and there are many of them that should be adopted , not dissected .  the sad thing is that steve is more likely to be treated not with embryonic stem cell research but with stem cells from his own body .  adult stem cell treatments are helping people walk today , in 67 different diseases and treatments .  the proponents of h.r. 810 can produce no such results .  there are none for embryonic stem cells .  mr. speaker , i rise in favor of adult stem cell research , characterized by the gentleman from new jersey 's ( mr. smith )  bill , and oppose h.r. 810 , the castle legislation , that would propose federal dollars for destroying human embryos for embryonic stem cell research .  i can illustrate the difference with these two binders .  in this one binder there are 67 successful treatments using adult stem cells , and stem cells from cord blood , adult stem cells for treatment of diseases .  they are all categorized here by diseases , successful treatments .  from embryonic stem cell research : zero .  the simple fact of the matter is with the use of embryonic stem cells the only thing that you have today are dead embryos and dead laboratory rats with tumors .  they have not worked .  they do not work .  with adult stem cells you have live patients with treatments .  this is the ethical way to go .  this is what we should support .  mr. speaker , we are all different .  we are all different because we each have our own dna .  the ordering of genes in our body makes us unique .  we have the color of our hair , skin , eyes , teeth , because of dna .  and each person has his or her own set of dna , and that makes us each unique .  each and every person is valuable .  i am a supporter of ethical stem cell research , mr. speaker .  i do not support the dissecting and destruction of living human embryos to harvest stem cells for the purpose of experimentation and research , and that is because each of these living human embryos has its own genetic makeup , its own dna .  it is not animal dna .  it is not plant dna .  it is human genetic code , human dna .  the stuff that sets each person apart is there in this tiny little life that h.r. 810 would destroy .  each unique and distinct , but frozen .  early today i met with a man , steve johnson , from reading , pennsylvania , who is in washington for this debate .  steve was in a bicycle accident 11 years ago and his bike was replaced with a wheelchair , and today steve is a paraplegic .  and he has heard the promises made that embryonic stem cell research might help him walk again .  for steve , though , that is unacceptable .  and so steve and his wife , kate , adopted a little girl .  here are three little snowflake babies .  he adopted little zara when she was just a frozen embryo , stored at an ivf clinic .  she was a leftover embryo that proponents of this bill would destroy for her cells .  if someone had dissected her for embryonic stem cell research , she would not be here today .  but she is here today with 21 other little snowflake children .  steve would not have his daughter because scientists want a laboratory experiment .  zara is living proof that advocates of h.r. 810 are wrong on this issue .  what they do not admit is that steve johnson 's paralysis is more likely to be reversed using adult stem cells .  how do we know that ?  because recently , we learned that cells taken from a person 's nose , olfactory cells , are helping people walk again .  cells taken from cord blood are helping people walk again , today .  embryonic stem cells , no , not helping people walk again .  they might say there is hope .  there is no proof .  i would like to challenge the other side to put up in front of a camera one person treated for spinal cord injury with embryonic stem cells .  you can not , can you ?  we can .  hwang mi-soon , susan fajt .  how about parkinson 's ?  you can not .  we can .  dennis turner .  how about cancer ?  leukemia ?  sickle cell ?  you can not .  adult stem cells are treating human patients today for the very diseases that the proponents of this bill claim might hopefully one day be treated through the destruction of living human embryos .  the human being is in all stages of development , or disability , uniquely distinct and infinitely valuable .  house resolution 810 is a tragic betrayal of that value .  mr. speaker , i rise today to say that i will be casting my vote for h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  i am voting for this legislation with the face of ashley dahly on my mind .  ashley is a 17-year-old high school junior from devils lake , north dakota .  she is a happy teenager with an adoring family .  she likes school , enjoys student congress and speech class , and loves ice skating .  ashley also has juvenile diabetes .  in fact , today she is at home missing her finals because of high blood sugars .  ashley is north dakota 's delegate for children 's congress through the juvenile diabetes research foundation , taking place here in washington on june 18-22nd .  ashley 's goal is to enter a health-related field such as a nurse or diabetes educator , because as ashley has said , `` i know the pain that children diagnosed with diabetes go through , and i think i could help in relieving that pain. '' there is currently no cure for juvenile diabetes , a disease that affects another child every hour of every day .  embryonic stem cell research offers great potential for advancing treatments or even curing diabetes , as well as many other diseases such as parkinson 's disease , cancer , als , paralysis and others .  particularly in the case of diabetes , embryonic stem cell research holds the greatest possibility for understanding and curing this disease , since adult stem cells are not present in the pancreas , the organ attacked by diabetes .  embryonic stem cell research is an extremely difficult issue , involving the potential for critical medical breakthroughs on the one hand , and very complex bio-ethical issues on the other .  the bill requires that research only be conducted on stem cells derived from embryos created for fertility treatments that were in excess of the need of the mother and would otherwise have been destroyed .  my vote today is supported by over 200 major patient groups , scientists , and medical research groups , and i believe that my vote can provide hope to families in north dakota like ashley 's who are suffering through the illness of a loved one .  mr. speaker , critics of embryonic stem cell research maintain that it is wrong to promote science which destroys life in order to save life .  as the leading prolife legislator in washington , senator orrin hatch put it , since when does human life begin in a petri dish in a refrigerator ?  to reduce this issue to an abortion issue is a horrible injustice to 100 million americans suffering the ravages of diabetes , spinal cord paralysis , heart disease , parkinson 's and alzheimer 's disease , cancer , ms , lou gehrig 's disease and other fatal and debilitating diseases .  i met with researchers from four of the main stem cell institutes in america .  as one prominent researcher told me , and i am quoting , `` the real irony of the president 's policy is that at least 100 , 000 surplus frozen embryos could be used to produce stem cells for research to save lives .  but instead , these surplus embryos are being thrown into the garbage and treated as medical waste , thrown into the garbage and treated as medical waste. '' only 22 of the 78 stem cell lines approved by the president remain today .  as another leading researcher said , `` this limit on research has stunted progress on finding cures for a number of fatal and debilitating diseases. '' mr. speaker , it is too late for my beloved mother who was totally debilitated by alzheimer 's disease which killed her .  it is too late for my cousin who died a tragic , cruel death from juvenile diabetes while still in his 20s ; but it is not too late for the 100 million other american people counting on us to support funding for life-saving research on embryonic stem cells .  let us not turn our backs on these people .  let us not take away their hope .  let us listen to respected pro-life colleagues and friends like orrin hatch , former senator connie mack , former health and human services secretary tommy thompson when they tell us this is not an abortion issue .  we should support embryonic stem cell research .  mr. speaker , critics of embryonic stem cell research maintain it is wrong to `` promote science which destroys life in order to save life. '' as the leading pro-life legislator in washington , sen .  orrin hatch put it , `` since when does human life begin in a petri dish in a refrigerator ?  `` to reduce this issue to an abortion issue is a horrible injustice to 100 million americans suffering the ravages of diabetes , spinal cord paralysis , heart disease , parkinson 's and alzheimer 's disease , cancer , multiple sclerosis , lou gehrig 's disease and other fatal , debilitating diseases .  i have met with medical researchers from the university of minnesota stem cell institute , the mayo clinic , the national institutes of health and johns hopkins university .  as one prominent researcher told me , `` the real irony of the president 's policy is that at least 100 , 000 surplus frozen embryos could be used to produce stem cells for research to save lives .  instead , these surplus embryos are being thrown into the garbage and treated as medical waste. '' only 22 of the 78 stem cell lines approved by the president in 2001 remain today .  as another leading medical researcher said , `` this limit on research has stunted progress on finding cures for a number of debilitating and fatal diseases. '' mr. speaker , the scientific evidence is overwhelming that embryonic stem cells have great potential to regenerate specific types of human tissues , offering hope for millions of americans suffering from debilitating diseases .  mr. speaker , it 's too late for my beloved mother who was totally debilitated by alzheimer 's disease which led to her death .  it 's too late for my cousin who died a cruel , tragic death from diabetes in his 20 's .  but it 's not too late for 100 million other american people counting on us to support funding for life-saving research on stem cells derived from donated surplus embryos created through in vitro fertilization .  let 's not turn our backs on these people .  let 's not take away their hope .  let 's listen to respected pro-life colleagues and friends like senator orrin hatch , former senator connie mack and former hhs secretary tommy thompson when they tell us this is not an abortion issue .  let 's make it clear that abortion politics should not determine this critical vote .  embryonic stem cell research will prolong life , improve life and give hope for life to millions of people .  i urge members to support funding for life-saving and life-enhancing embryonic stem cell research .  the american people deserve nothing less .  mr. speaker , i thank the leader for yielding me this time .  i recall being taught that the mustard seed is the smallest of all seeds , and yet it grows into the mightiest of trees .  and the same can be said of the human embryo , something so very small , so unseen by the human eye , and yet so special at the very beginning of life that it needs to be safeguarded .  the real heart of this argument is whether something so innocent should be killed and whether americans should pay to facilitate the government-sanctioned experimentation on human life based upon a prospect , based upon a maybe , based upon a possibility , based upon the potential .  the government already takes 285 million of our tax dollars each year and funnels it into pro-abortion organizations .  the leadership of the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  undermines my ability to love my country , undermines our patriotism .  i say stand fast against the secret pollsters and vote `` no '' on this legislation .  mr. speaker , as a proud cosponsor of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 , i rise in support of this legislation .  those of us who have long supported the increased accessibility and possibilities of ethical stem cell research appreciate the opportunity the leadership has granted us by allowing a vote on this legislation today .  i would also like to thank representatives castle and degette for their continued persistence to bring this bill to the floor .  we have all known someone who has suffered from lou gehrig 's disease , alzheimer 's disease , parkinson 's disease , multiple sclerosis , rett syndrome , lupus , pulmonary fibrosis , juvenile diabetes , autism , cystic fibrosis , osteoporosis , spinal cord injuries , heart disease or cancer .  by passing h.r. 810 , we have the opportunity to help all of those individuals who are living with these and many other illnesses and injuries .  embryonic stem cell research holds the key to decreasing the pain and suffering of so many of our friends and family members .  furthermore , we have a moral obligation to do everything we can to help the millions of americans , whose lives we hold in our hands , by allowing federal funding to be used for this promising research .  the authors of h.r. 810 have gone to great lengths to guarantee that safeguards are in place to ensure the ethical use of embryonic stem cells .  embryos used for stem cell research under h.r. 810 , will come from donor participation in in vitro fertilization , ivf , so embryos will not be created or cloned for research .  this legislation also directs the experts at the national institutes of health to define the boundaries of this research .  nih has stated that they are prepared to institute these parameters .  such restrictions will ensure that rogue scientists are not performing dangerous and unethical experiments .  the united states has long been the leader of groundbreaking health research .  today we have the opportunity to ensure that the rest of the world does not continue to take the lead in health care advances .  i urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of h.r. 810 , not only because u.s. based researchers deserve to be at the forefront of the development of promising new treatments , but also for all of our constituents , friends , and family members who are counting on us to support the effort to find cures for so many different diseases and illnesses .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  stem cells have tremendous promise to treat a myriad of devastating diseases and disorders .  embryonic stem cells can become any cell type in the body , and their promise lies in the ability to tailor-make cellular treatments , heart muscle for heart disease , pancreas cells for diabetes , or nervous system cells for spinal cord injury .  stem cells are relatively new on the research scene ; it was only in 1998 that the techniques were developed to isolate stem cells from humans , and we have a lot to learn about how to make the cells develop in the ways that will be essential for therapeutic application .  today , i would like to highlight how the reeve-irvine research center has made significant head way in making the promise of embryonic stem cells a reality .  work recently published by dr .  hans keirstead and his group has shown that they are able to turn human embryonic stem cells into a clinically useful cell type .  to use embryonic stem cells for therapy , it is critical to devise ways to cause them to turn into particular cell types .  if un-differentiated stem cells are transplanted into the brain or spinal cord , they may become a teratoma , a tumor made of many different cells like bone , muscle , and hair .  so , to be useful for therapy , embryonic stem cells must be `` restricted '' to differentiate into the desired cell types .  that is , they must be told what specific cell type to turn into as they mature .  dr .  keirstead 's group has developed a unique method to create these differentiated cells .  moreover , as report in journal of neuroscience , his group has been successful in transplanting these cells into an acute spinal cord injury .  once transplanted , these cells have been able to survive in a living organism , move to areas where they are needed , and do what they are supposed to .  the result is a significant improvement in walking ability , at least at an early time point post injury .  this finding is proof of principle that human embryonic stem cells can be a viable therapeutic agent .  dr .  keirstead 's cells are on the federally approved list .  they are among the very few lines that are actually usable , and he is among the very few who have had access to human embryonic stem cells .  dr .  keirstead 's progress since 2001 when he received the cells has been remarkable .  his group has learned how to maintain the embryonic stem cells , no small feat in itself .  they have learned how to transform the cells into differentiated cells , they have learned how to use the cells to treat new spinal cord injury in animals .  all this in less than 4 years , and in one lab .  imagine the progress that could have been made with , 100 labs working with embryonic stem cells on not only spinal cord injury but alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , diabetes , and so many others .  the reeve-irvine research center is one of a handful of places in the u.s. that has the know-how to use embryonic stem cells .  with more lines available , we could readily address issues related to paralysis by developing new cell populations , like motor neurons , or by testing the therapeutic quality of other lines .  in addition , more researchers would be able to devote their talents to this area of research .  my father is suffering from alzheimer 's .  i know that my family would do anything to find a cure for this horribly degenerative disease .  i would ask my colleagues , would your family do any differently ?  would the families of your constituents do any differently ?  the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 before congress today , if passed , would open the door to our country 's brightest scientists to find the treatments that dr .  keirstead 's work suggests are really there waiting to be discovered .  i urge my colleagues to support this research and to vote for h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i stand today in strong support of the bipartisan stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  one of the few places this is really an extremely controversial bill is right here because the majority of americans strongly support embryonic stem cell research .  they want the federal government to fund research that is critical for some 128 million americans who suffer from juvenile diabetes , parkinson 's , alzheimer 's , cancer , heart disease , spinal cord injuries , als , and other diseases .  stem cell research is a medical issue , one that should and fortunately does transcend political lines and instead focuses on human lives .  one such life is that of clara livingston , a 9-year-old girl with diabetes .  during her testimony last week in a hearing in chicago , clara said , `` there are things i do n't like about diabetes .  i have to put a one-inch needle into my skin to connect my insulin pump .  i do n't like pricks or shots .  i do n't like having high blood sugar and not being able to eat .  i do n't like going low and fainting. '' she continued , `` i would like to find a cure because finding a cure will help make america and the rest of the world not worry about diabetes. '' most scientists agree that embryonic stem cell research offers the greatest hope to patients like clara .  there are limitations on the usefulness of adult stem cells when compared to embryonic stem cells .  for example , there are no adult stem cells in the pancreas .  that means that adult stem cell research will be inadequate in helping clara or any other patients who are patients hoping for a cure for diabetes .  while it is important to continue working with adult stem cells , it is also vital to fund the research funding embryonic stem cells .  we do a grave disservice to millions of children and adults living with serious illness , as well as the millions who will develop these conditions in the future , by prohibiting promising research .  this bill will lift these arbitrary restrictions and permit funding of cell lines regardless of where they were created .  federal funding guidelines assure that research will meet ethical standards and allow advancements to be made as quickly as possible .  as steven teitelbaum of washington university in st .  louis said , `` this is not a contest between adult and embryonic stem cells .  this is a contest between us as a society and disease. '' i hope my colleagues will vote `` yes '' on this bipartisan legislation .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  deserve our thanks for sponsoring the stem cell research enhancement act and working with so many families who have been impacted by diseases that may find cures as a result of this vital research .  their work and dedication on this legislation has been tremendous and praiseworthy .  i also thank them for giving me the opportunity to cast one of the most important votes i will ever make in congress .  almost everyone has lost some family member prematurely .  i think of the grandmother , whom i never met , who died when her daughter , my mother , was only 16 .  i think of my mother-in-law who never had the opportunity to know her grandchild who is now 25 .  i think of my cousin , who was brilliant and never got to realize his full potential .  embryonic stem cell research has the potential to cure disease and save lives in ways never dreamed of .  and it is only 6 years old .  these are discarded embryos that were never in the womb .  they were not taken from it and they were not put into it .  but they can help save lives .  that is why it is so important that we not only pass this legislation today , but that the president signs this bill into law .  sometimes ideology can box you in and cause you to make wrong and harmful decisions .  i think it is time we recognize the dark ages are over .  galileo and copernicus have been proven right .  the world is in fact round .  the earth does revolve around the sun .  i believe god gave us intellect to differentiate between imprisoning dogma and sound ethical science , which is what we must do here today .  i want history to look back at this congress and say that in the face of the age-old tension between religion and science , the members here allowed critical scientific research to advance while respecting important ethical questions that surrounded it .  we know that by allowing embryonic stem cell research to go forward , treatments and prevention for diseases will not come to us overnight .  mr. speaker , i thank my good friend for yielding and for his leadership on this bill and for cosponsoring it , along with the gentleman from alabama ( mr. davis )  on the other side of the aisle for his leadership over the last 3 years as we crafted this legislation .  it is finally on the floor after almost 3 years of work ; and again i thank my friend , the gentleman from alabama ( mr. davis )  for his leadership .  one of the best kept secrets in america today is that umbilical cord-blood stem cells and adult stem cells are curing people of a myriad of terrible conditions and diseases .  one of the greatest hopes that i have is that these current-day miracles , denied to many because of an insufficient inventory and inefficient means of matching cord-blood stem cells with patients , will now become available to tens of thousands of patients as a direct result of the stem cell therapeutic and research act of 2005 , h.r. 2520 .  amazingly , we are on the threshold of systematically turning medical waste , umbilical cords and placentas , into medical miracles for huge numbers of very sick and terminally ill patients who suffer from such maladies as leukemia and sickle cell anemia .  and because this legislation promotes cord-blood research as well , we can expect new and expanded uses of these very versatile stem cells .  for the first time ever , our bill establishes a nationwide stem cell transplantation system .  it also authorizes the national bone marrow transplant system and combines both under a new program , providing an easy , single-access point for information for doctors and patients and for the purpose of collecting and analyzing outcomes data .  the new program created in our legislation is named for our distinguished colleague , the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  , because of all of his great work on bone marrow transplantation over the last 2 decades .  mr. speaker , cord-blood stem cells are already treating and curing patients .  unlike embryonic stem cell research that has not cured one person , cord-blood stem cells are treating patients .  the new york blood center , for example , has treated thousands of patients with more than 65 different diseases , including sickle cell disease , leukemia and osteoporosis .  some of those patients came and told their stories yesterday at a press conference , and they are in the gallery watching this debate right now .  one of those men , a young man named keonne penn was here to tell his story of how he was cured of sickle cell anemia , and he said , `` if it was n't for cord-blood stem cells , i would probably be dead by now .  it is a good thing i found a match .  it saved my life. '' stephen sprague , another man who was cured of leukemia , said he too was lucky to find a cord-blood match .  and 22-year-old jaclyn albanese , who just graduated from rutgers university from my state , said , `` if the new york blood center had not been there , i do not know what kind of shape i would be in. '' she is thankful as well .  mr. speaker , i say to my colleagues , cord-blood has also been used to treat hurler 's disease and krabbe 's disease , both neurological conditions , which blows away the idea that cord-blood stem cells are limited in the potential and the capacity to turn into other kinds of cells .  that is not too surprising , i say to my colleagues , when you simply read the published literature on the flexibility of cord-blood stem cells .  according to a july 2004 study published in the journal of experimental medicine , a research group led by dr .  kogler found `` a new human somatic stem cell from placental cord-blood with intrinsic pluripotent differential potential , '' which means it can become any type of cell in the body .  in addition , they found that the cells could expand to 10 quadrillion , or 10 to the power of 15 , cells before losing any pluripotent abilities .  and cord-blood stem cells are not only ahead in treating real human patients , they are also able to turn into different kinds of cells for research .  one company has already turned cord-blood stem cells into representatives of three germinal layers , including neural stem cells , nerve stem cells , liver/pancreas precursors , skeletal muscle , fat cells , bone cells and blood vessels .  last month , celgene corporation announced that cord-blood cells `` are `pluripotent ' , or have the ability to become different types of tissue. '' so we are just on the beginning of realizing the vast potential of what was formerly medical waste and has now been turned into these medical miracles .  let me just say to my colleagues that this idea that research on bone marrow and cord-blood stem cells has been researched on for decades and that embryo stem cells have only been researched for a short time is ludicrous and an unfair attack on cord-blood stem cell research .  during the entire period where research has been happening in this area of regenerative medicine , the idea that cells can change types and repair organs , both adult and embryo cells have been around in animals .  and , again , great progress has been made in the cord-blood and the adult stem cell .  my bill needs to be passed .  mr. speaker , i just want to make the point that some misinformation perhaps inadvertently is being spread on this floor , that these stem cells that are derived from cord blood only have a blood application .  that is unmitigated nonsense .  it is not true .  and i pointed out in my opening comments that in the celgene cellular therapeutics first reported back in 2001 that placental stem cells turned into nerve , blood , cartilage , skin and muscle cells , and that since that time other studies have confirmed cord blood 's pluripotent capability .  surely there needs to be further research .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , make no mistake about it , i support aggressive stem cell research and the judicious application of stem cells to mitigate and to cure disease .  that is why i sponsored the stem cell therapeutic research act of 2005 and i have been pushing it for almost 3 years .  that is why those of us who oppose h.r. 810 strongly support pouring millions of dollars into federal funds to support ethical stem cell research to find cures , to alleviate suffering , to inspire well-founded hope and to do it all in a way that respects the dignity and sanctity of human life .  i strongly oppose the castle bill , however , because it will use federal funds to facilitate the killing of perfectly healthy human embryos to derive their stem cells .  human embryos do have inherent value , mr. speaker .  they are not commodities or things or just tissue .  human embryos are human lives at their most vulnerable beginning stages , and they deserve respect .  parents of human embryos are custodians of those young ones .  they are not owners of human property , and the public policy we craft should ensure that the best interests of newly created human life is protected and preserved .  the castle bill embraces the misinformed notion that there is such a thing as left-over embryos , a grossly misleading and dehumanizing term in and of itself , that they are just going to be destroyed and thrown away and poured down the drain .  that is simply not true .  the cryogenically frozen male and female embryos that the genetic parents may feel are no longer needed for implanting in the genetic mother are of infinite value to an adoptive mother who may be sterile or otherwise unable to have a baby .  mr. speaker , just one adoption initiative , the snowflakes embryo adoption program , has facilitated the adoption of 96 formerly frozen embryos with more adoptions in the works .  i have met some of those kids .  they are not leftovers , even though they lived in a frozen orphanage , perhaps many of them for years .  they are just as human and alive and full of promise as other children .  let them be adopted , not killed and experimented on .  they are not throwaways .  mr. speaker , this is a grand and glorious debate we are having today .  think of what we are doing .  we are debating the best route for achieving wonderful , healing medical possibility , possibility that would have been unheard of not many years ago .  but it is only possibility .  by definition , good research is always about possibility , about the potential of finding the answers to that which we do not know .  let me share three perspectives with you today .  first , that of a friend .  this is a picture of a family i know .  the mother , father and i trained together at the medical school in arkansas .  she was diagnosed with insulin dependent diabetes at age 7. she had early complications with retinal problems caused by the diabetes .  her husband is a doctor .  five years ago he had an accident and now has paralysis caused by spinal cord injury at the c7-t1 level .  this family has hope , realistic hope that sometime in the many years of life ahead of them , medical research may give them the possibility of cure or dramatic improvement in her diabetes and his spinal cord injury .  second , as a family doctor , i practiced medicine .  my patients and i relied on past research done by many good scientists striving in an ethical manner to end the harsh realities of so many diseases .  i know some of my friends in opposition to this bill today argue that embryonic stem cell research is junk science .  i do not share this view , but to those of you pondering this view today i say , let our gifted researchers , not us legislators , answer the unanswered scientific questions for us .  funded ethical research is not junk science .  premature conclusion is .  third , as patients , my wife and i have ventured into the world of fertility clinics .  we have met doctors and nurses all working hard to help couples have families , and we have studied and prayed over the patient consent forms .  the ultimate decision on what happens to unneeded embryos should be up to that fully informed family , and fully informed consent is part of this bill .  i support this bill today .  i do not know what , if anything , will come from this funded research .  that is why we do the research .  please vote `` yes '' for this bill .  mr. speaker , i would like to share a letter from a young girl in my district : `` dear house of representatives : `` my name is kelsea king .  i am 14 years old and have been dealing with diabetes for nearly 3 years now .  there are many challenges in having this disease , both physical and emotional .  though it may be hard to believe , the emotional pain greatly outweighs the physical pain .  `` my sister , kendall , was also diagnosed with diabetes 2 years ago .  she is now 7. it is very hard going through life knowing that both our lives could be shortened by this disease .  it is also very difficult knowing what this disease makes us prone to , such as heart disease , liver problems , blindness and in extreme cases loss of limb .  but the most difficult part of all is worrying about passing out due to low blood sugars , or being hospitalized .  it is too large of a responsibility and too large of a burden for any 7-year-old and even for a 14-year-old .  `` as you can see , my need for a cure to this disease is very great .  but i do not want a cure if it takes the lives of others .  i do not support embryonic stem cell research .  i believe it is very wrong to take innocent lives for any reason , even if it benefits me .  there are other ways of a cure .  we just need proper funding .  if we work together , we can find a cure through adult stem cell research .  `` my hope and prayer is for my sister and i to be cured before we are adults so we can both live long and healthy lives .  no one deserves diabetes but everyone deserves a cure through adult stem cell research. '' the campaign for federal funding of embryonic stem cell research has been a campaign of half-truths , and at times , outright deception .  advocates of federal funding for destructive embryonic stem cell research do three things consistently : ( 1 ) obfuscate the fact that a living human embryo is killed in the process of extracting the cells .  ( 2 ) obfuscate the fact that there have been no cures , treatments , therapies , or even clinical trials using embryonic stem cells .  ( 3 ) obfuscate the fact that there is unlimited private funding allowed for embryonic stem cell research .  as chairman of the government reform subcommittee on criminal justice , drug policy and human resources , i sent a letter to the director of the national institutes of health in october , 2002 requesting a detailed report providing comprehensive information about the medical applications of adult and embryonic stem cells .  it took almost two years to get a response from the nih , and the response omitted many of the advances , applications and trials for adult stem cell research that had already been reported in peer reviewed journals .  the one thing that was complete in the nih response to our oversight request , was the listing of applications for embryonic stem cells : zero .  the applications for embryonic stem cell research was zero then , in june of 2004 , and it 's zero now .  the human applications for adult stem cells currently number 58 , and range from lymphoma to chrones disease to heart damage to immunodeficiency syndrome .  finally , let me be clear : there is no `` ban '' on embryonic stem cell research .  there is no limit to the amount of private money that may be devoted to this research .  the research is being conducted throughout the country .  the critical fact is that we are responsible for the public purse , and forcing the public to fund unproven research where living human embryos are destroyed is completely unconscionable .  if private industry sees promise in embryonic stem cell research , you can be certain that investors will find it .  but the public should not be forced to subsidize a speculative venture involving destruction of human life .  fourteen-year-old kelsea king , an articulate young constituent of mine , has juvenile diabetes .  her struggle with this disease is emotionally and physically challenging , but she is strongly opposed to the idea of developing a cure that would involve the destruction of human life .  as she wrote in a letter to me , `` i believe it is very wrong to take innocent lives for any reason , even if it benefits me. '' i am submitting miss king 's letter in its entirety for the record .  h.r. 810 requires the public to pay for destructive embryonic research that has no current applications .  it 's an empty promise to the millions who suffer with disease , and would surely pave the way for embryo cloning .  i am voting against h.r. 810 , and i urge my colleagues to do the same .  avila , in , may 23 , 2005 .  dear house of representatives , my name is kelsea king .  i am fourteen years old and have been dealing with diabetes for nearly three years now .  there are many challenges in having this disease , both physical and emotional .  though it may be hard to believe , the emotional pain greatly outweighs the physical pain .  my sister , kendall , was also diagnosed with diabetes two years ago .  she is now seven .  it is very hard going through life knowing that both our lives could be shortened by this disease .  it is also very difficult knowing what this disease makes us prone to , such as heart disease , liver problems , blindness , and in extreme cases , loss of limb .  but the most difficult part of all is worrying about passing out due to low blood sugars , or being hospitalized for ketoacidosis ( which is caused by blood sugar being too high ) .  it is too large of a responsibility and too large of a burden for any seven-year-old , and even for a fourteen-year-old .  as you can see , my need for a cure to this disease is very great .  but i do not want a cure if it takes the lives of others .  i do not support embryonic stem cell research .  i believe it is very wrong to take innocent lives for any reason , even if it benefits me .  there are other ways of a cure ; we just need proper funding .  there is no proof that embryonic stem cell research is better or more successful than adult stem cell research .  if we work together , we can find a cure through adult stem cell research .  my hope and prayer is for my sister and i to be cured before we are adults so we can both live long and healthy lives .  no one deserves diabetes , but everyone deserves a cure through adult stem cell research .  my sister and i need this , as well as the millions of other children in america who are afflicted with this disease .  please help us -- support adult stem cell research !  sincerely , mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 810 .  our research policies should be decided by scientists and doctors at the national institutes of health and not by karl rove and self-appointed religious gurus .  if you believe it is morally superior to discard a single cell in a freezer rather than to use it to help millions of americans with parkinson 's , alzheimer 's , and diabetes , and you are asked to donate an embryo , then by all means refuse to do so .  but do not tell my constituents that we can not alleviate their suffering because it might offend modern-day pharisees .  do not tell my constituent don reed and his son roman , who is paralyzed from a high school football accident , that scientists working on stem cell research in california will not be able to collaborate with the nih .  many in government already think they have the right to tell you whom you can marry , what kind of birth control you can use and how you die .  now they think their moral superiority extends to the single cell level .  beyond my outrage at this arrogance , i am saddened by this country 's precipitous decline in the estimation of the rest of the world .  if this bill does not pass and scientists of the world meet to discuss this rapidly advancing field , many of our key researchers will be stuck here working with the few stem cell lines that are considered inoffensive .  the flat earth society will tell you that the u.s. has to show moral leadership , and just because the overwhelming majority of the world 's scientific community supports research , it does not mean it is the right thing to do .  frankly , mr. speaker , i do not need a lecture from the majority leader on moral and ethical leadership .  i do not look to those that will not acknowledge the existence of global warming for scientific and ethical leadership .  i do not think the politicians who so eagerly decided they knew what was best for terry schiavo know much about life , dignity , or suffering .  i stand proudly with millions of americans on behalf of this country 's tradition of scientific leadership , and i urge a `` yes '' vote for h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , this debate we are having surrounding h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act , is really one of the most fundamentally important debates that this body can undertake .  regrettably , this discussion will only last a few hours on the floor of the house of representatives today .  there have been no hearings on this bill or on the previous stem cell bill .  h.r. 810 addresses the most fundamental , basic , ethical issue : life , and when does it begin ; when should life , including human embryos , be open to experimentation and scientific research .  those of us who believe in the sanctity of life from conception to our last breath , find the logic of the proponents of embryonic stem cell research flawed .  h.r. 810 allows research and science to triumph philosophy and values .  this country seeks to be a world leader militarily , economically and scientifically , and culturally .  but what about morally and ethically ?  what about leading the world in ethics and morals by declaring human life off limits to research and to manipulation through stem cell research ?  what about leading the world in ethics and morals by declaring human life from embryonic stage to old age as valued ?  we , as a nation , believe that all life is precious and there is an ethical line that we as a people , as a nation , will not cross .  we should lead by declaring that human life , even at the embryonic stage , is not open to manipulation , experimentation , or research .  we can not mask the efforts to manipulate human life under the guise of science or medical research .  you and i , each of us , we all share one thing in common : we were all embryos at one time .  the embryos that were you and me were allowed to grow to become congressmen , congresswomen , police officers , factory workers , soldiers , government employees , lawyers , doctors , scientists .  we were all embryos at one time .  we were all allowed to grow .  whether an embryo , a human life , is or is not allowed to grow , to become a unique individual , is a discussion this country really should have , a meaningful discussion , not just a few hours of debate in this chamber .  it is my hope that families , individuals , couples and our children will have a discussion on human life and when it begins .  is an embryo life ?  at what point does an embryo become life ?  at what point does our nation shelter life with the constitutional , legal , and governmental safeguards ?  are there other ways to do promising medical and scientific research without destroying human embryos ?  this is an ethical discussion i hoped would take place in the halls of congress , in the congressional committee rooms , in homes and workplaces all across america .  whether it is at the watercooler or in the cloakroom , these ethical and moral issues should and must be discussed as a nation , as a people , as a culture , and as a world leader .  instead , this will only be discussed for a few hours on the house floor .  the other body has just gone through public , political , and senatorial debate on the use of a filibuster in our democracy .  because of this debate , a healthy discussion occurred in america .  i , for one , do not wish to avoid the moral and ethical issues of stem cell research debate .  yesterday in a news show , the commentator asked me why not allow stem cell research on discarded medical waste .  is that what we have come to , to viewing embryos , which if allowed to grow and divide would become human beings , being treated as medical waste ?  why are proponents of h.r. 810 so adamant that we do research specifically using embryonic stem cells ?  according to the proponents of this legislation , these stem cells are our best hope of finding cures .  they can develop into all cells of the body .  they say medical science can unlock the keys to life .  we can cure any disease or injury .  they argue we must create life and then kill it to unlock the mysteries of life for scientific medical research .  create and clone the building blocks of life so we can manipulate and experiment ?  is that the line we wish to cross today ?  we will hear today about other research with adult stem cells , cord and placenta cells , bone marrow , fetal tissue , and unraveling our dna through mapping of genome , all in the pursuit of finding medical cures for the dreaded diseases , illnesses , and injuries we all wish to cure .  but where do we draw the line on medical research and say we as a nation , we as a people will not cross that line ?  this question has not been adequately addressed in this legislation .  when do embryos become life ?  if you read the materials , after 40 hours , less than 2 days , the fertilized egg begins to divide and the embryos are checked after 40 hours .  or is it 5 days when embryos are called blastocysts ?  at this stage there are approximately 250 cells .  or do we allow the blastocysts to survive in a laboratory culture for up to 14 days and still not call them human life but blastocysts so they are still open to research and experimentation ?  when does life become scientifically nonexistent ?  i ask these questions because h.r. 810 is silent on these issues .  it does not specify how long these embryos are allowed to grow before they are killed -- 2 days , 5 days , 14 days or more .  proponents of h.r. 810 will claim that their legislation will address the ethical manner in which this research will be conducted .  yet their legislation is silent on the ethics , other than subsection c that directs the secretary of hhs to create guidelines within 60 days .  two presidential bioethics advisory panels have given us differing guidance on when and how research should be conducted .  if this nation , through its elected leaders , allows embryonic stem cell research , then we as representatives of the american people should have the courage to state unequivocally where we stand and answer the ethical questions presented before us here today .  as elected leaders , we should set some basic guidelines , not leave the guidelines to unelected and unnamed administrative officials .  i know many members on both sides of the aisle , of all political philosophies , have struggled with questions of morality , questions of life and questions of faith this past week .  many of us have asked ourselves that same question , and i have concluded that this legislation is unethical and unnecessary .  h.r. 810 mandates federal tax dollars to be used to destroy human embryos .  these embryos , if allowed to live , would grow into beautiful children like the snowflake children visiting the capitol today .  they are human life .  you , i and they were embryonic stem cells that were allowed to grow .  congress should not take lightly the destruction and manipulation of human life .  it is clear that the american public does not .  forty-three percent of the american public clearly opposes more federal funding for human embryonic research .  fifty-three percent clearly support more federal funding , according to cnn .  as i said before , this legislation has no limits as to how long the embryo can grow .  the national academy of sciences ' guidelines recommends allowing them to grow for no more than 14 days .  again , this legislation is not necessary .  human embryonic stem cell research is completely legal today in the private sector .  embryonic stem cell research is eligible for state funding in several states , california and new jersey , and is funded through millions of dollars in private research money , $ 100 million alone at harvard university .  since august 2001 , 128 stem cell lines have been created .  and still human embryonic stem cell research is funded by the federal government today .  the national institute of health spent $ 24 million on embryonic stem cell research in fiscal year 2004 , the last year that data was available .  twenty-two human embryonic stem cell lines are currently receiving federal funding .  these lines are sufficient for basic research according to the nih director .  former secretary of health and human services tommy thompson has said that these lines should be exhausted first before we move any further .  finally , embryonic stem cell research remains unproven .  not a single therapy has been developed from embryonic stem cell research .  instead of cures , embryonic stem cell research has led to tumors and deaths in animal studies .  the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  has had his staff scour the medical journals for real proof of therapeutic benefit of embryonic stem cell research , but has come up empty handed .  there have been zero published treatments in human patients using embryonic stem cells .  while the promise of embryonic stem cells is questionable , the promise of adult stem cell research is being realized today .  adult stem cells are being used today to save lives .  recognizing this , the national institutes of health spent $ 568 million in fiscal year 2006 on adult stem cell research .  adult stem cells are being used today in clinical trials and in clinical practice to treat 58 diseases , including parkinson 's , spinal cord injury , juvenile diabetes , brain cancer , breast cancer , lymphoma , heart damage , rheumatoid arthritis , juvenile arthritis , stroke , and sickle cell anemia .  i am pleased the house is passing legislation today , the stem cell therapeutic and research act , to promote adult stem cell research .  but we are faced now with a bill that is unethical and incomplete .  h.r. 810 says nothing about human cloning , which is still perfectly legal today .  i introduced legislation with the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  and senators brownback and landrieu to ban all human cloning .  the inevitable truth is that if we pass this bill today , the cloning of a human baby will only come sooner .  there is no room for shades of gray on this issue .  the , quote , therapeutic cloning that will result from this legislation will make reproductive cloning even more likely .  we should not allow the creation of life for the purpose of destroying it .  that is what happens with this bill .  let me be clear .  i am committed to funding scientific research that will unlock the origins of disease and develop cures that can help my constituents .  again , 58 conditions are being treated using placental and adult stem cells , and we can not begin to imagine the promising new treatments and drugs on the horizon .  but we can not let science leapfrog our ethics , our morals and our legal system .  this is not a partisan issue , and it is bigger than a right-to-life issue .  it is clear that adult stem cell research has opened the door to the dreams of lifesaving treatments and cures for our most deadly and debilitating diseases , but i do not believe it is time to open the door to more embryonic stem cell research and open the floodgates to human cloning .  i urge my colleagues to vote against h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , as this debate has gone on , and it has been a good discussion here today , i think it is worthwhile to come back to where we are on this whole issue here .  the embryonic stem cell research we are debating here today is controversial because of the means of obtaining these cells .  research involving most types of stem cells , those derived from adult tissues or the umbilical cord , is uncontroversial except , as we saw , the second issue here today is , how effective is it ?  is embryonic more effective than cord ?  are embryonic stem cells more effective in treating injuries and illnesses than the adult tissue stem cells ?  so we sort of have a two-pronged argument here yet : how do you obtain the stem cells and , secondly , the effectiveness of adult versus embryonic stem cells .  but i think in this whole issue here , we sort of lose questions .  before we even get to those questions , i think we should look at it and say , what is the ethical consideration of the human nature , and that should be the first question we should ask , not what are the means we obtain it by , what is left over when we obtain the embryonic stem cells , or what is its effectiveness .  i think we have to look at the ethical considerations .  because cloning is one method to produce embryos for research , the ethical issues surrounding cloning are also relevant .  in fact , i believe those ethical issues should really be the first question we should ask before we debate the means of obtaining , or even the effectiveness of the proposed treatment .  i would hope that life would triumph hope and the question is really before we even get into effectiveness or means , but what is the human nature consideration ?  that should be the first question we should answer .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i have one more speaker and then i plan on closing .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , there has been a lot of discussion today about the quality of adult stem cells and they are not as versatile as embryonic stem cells .  there are a number of things that show adult stem cells are highly versatile and just as effective if not more effective than the predicted embryonic stems .  the list of these studies is as follows : myth : adult stem cells are not as versatile as embryonic stem cells .  fact : a number of studies show adult stem cells are highly versatile .  1 .  professor alan mackay-sim of griffith university in australia published a study showing that olfactory stem cells could develop into heart cells , liver cells , kidney cells , muscle cells , brain cells and nerve cells .  ( murrell w et al. , `` multipotent stem cells from adult olfactory mucosa '' , developmental dynamics published online 21 march 2005. ) 2 .  dr .  douglas losordo at tufts university showed that a type of bone marrow stem cell can turn into most tissue types , and can regenerate damaged heart .  `` this discovery represents a major breakthrough in stem-cell therapy , '' said dr .  douglas losordo .  `` based on our findings we believe these newly discovered stem-cells may have the capacity to generate into most tissue types in the human body .  this is a very unique property that until this time has only been found in embryonic stem cells. '' 3 .  in july 2004 , research conducted in germany , led by dr .  peter wernet found a type of umbilical cord blood stem cell , they call ussc 's ( unrestricted somatic stem cells ) , that they showed can turn into several different cell types , including brain , bone , cartilage , liver , heart , and blood cells .  it showed that the cells can turn into all three germ layers , showing they are pluripotent .  ( kogler g et al. , `` a new human somatic stem cell from placental cord blood with intrinsic pluripotent differentiation potential '' , j. experimental medicine 200 , 123-135 , 19 july 2004. ) 4 .  in june 2004 , researchers showed that human bone marrow stem cells have pluripotent potential .  ( d'ippolito g et al. , `` marrow-isolated adult multilineage inducible ( miami ) cells , a unique population of postnatal young and old human cells with extensive expansion and differentiation potential '' , j. cell science 117 , 2971-2981 , 15 july 2004 ( published online 1 june 2004 ) 5 .  this study shows that blood stem cells can form cells from all 3 primary germ layers , including endothelial cells , neuronal cells , and liver cells .  ( zhao y et al. ; `` a human peripheral blood monocyte-derived subset acts as pluripotent stem cells '' ; proceedings of the national academy of sciences usa 100 , 2426-2431 ; 4 march 2003 ) 6 .  researchers found bone marrow stem cells in females that received transplants from male donors .  researchers found the y chromosome in the brain , showing that bone marrow stem cells generated neurons .  ( mezey e et al. ; `` transplanted bone marrow generates new neurons in human brains '' ; proceedings of the national academy of sciences usa 100 , 1364-1369 ; 4 feb 2003 ) 7 .  another group of researchers showed that bone marrow stem cells can form all body tissues .  ( jiang y et al. ; `` pluripotency of mesenchymal stem cells derived from adult marrow '' ; nature 418 , 41-49 ; 4 july 2002 ) 8 .  in 2002 , catherine verfaille has turned these bone marrow stem cells into skin , brain , lungs , heart , retina , muscle , intestines , kidney and spleen .  university of minnesota researchers found a certain type of bone marrow stem cell ( called a multipotent adult progenitor cells ( mapcs ) ) that could be turned into the three primary germ layers ( endoderm , ectoderm , ectoderm and mesoderm ) .  ( nature advance online publication , 23 june 2002 ( doi : 10.1038/nature 00870 ) 9 .  a single adult mouse bone marrow stem cell can form functional marrow , blood cells , liver , lung , gastrointestinal tract , skin , heart and skeletal muscle according to researchers dr .  neil theise of ny univ .  school of medicine and dr .  diane krause of yale univ .  school of medicine ( krause ds et al. ; `` multi-organ , multi-lineage engraftment by a single bone marrow-derived stem cell '' ; cell 105 , 369-377 ; 4 may 2001 ) mr. speaker , we have heard a lot of arguments .  in fact , we just heard again that in fact we throw these cells away when we are done .  we do not want them .  there is nothing we can do with them so we should use them for medical research or else it will just be medical waste .  i must ask again , is that what we have come to as a nation that in viewing embryos , that if allowed to grow and divide could become human beings but we will just treat them as human waste ?  the proponents of h.r. 810 are so adamant that we do research specifically using embryonic stem cells .  and why embryonic stem cells ?  because they are the best hope according to proponents of finding cures .  they say medical science can unlock these keys to life .  we can cure any illness , any disease , or any injury .  the proponents argue we must create life , the embryo , and then destroy the embryo through research to unlock the mysteries of life ; create and clone the building blocks of life so we can manipulate and experiment .  i believe as a country and as a culture that is a line we should not cross .  we heard today about other research with adult stem cells , cord , placenta , bone marrow , fetal tissue , and how about unraveling our dna through the mapping of the genome , all in the pursuit of finding medical cures .  but where do we draw a line on medical research and say we as a nation , as a people , will not cross that line ?  this question has not been adequately addressed in this legislation .  when do embryos become life ?  we have heard all kinds of figures today .  after 40 hours ?  that is less than 2 days after fertilization when we are able to check embryos for division and fertilization .  or is it 5 days when the embryos may be called blastocysts ?  at this stage , they are approximately 250 cells .  or do we allow the blastocysts to survive in the laboratory culture for up to 14 days and still then not call them human life , but blastocysts so they are open to experiment and research ?  when does life become scientifically non-existent ?  that is the question as elected representatives we have not yet answered .  h.r. 810 does not answer that .  vote `` no '' on h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , it is important that i give voice to the important issue of stem cell research .  this is not an issue that anyone takes lightly .  life is precious in all forms , and it is important to do all that we can to ensure issues surrounding life and quality of life are given the highest priority .  millions of americans suffer from debilitating diseases like juvenile diabetes , parkinson 's disease , alzheimer 's and a host of other diseases that reduce the quality of life or cause loss of life .  stem cells derived from embryos have shown tremendous promise in the fight to rid society of many of these diseases .  in 2003 alone there were 1 , 681 , 339 deaths from diseases that could benefit from this research .  many couples across america struggling to have children benefit from in vitro fertilization , a process where embryos are created to provide couples with the potential to have children .  in many cases , couples have left over embryos that would be destroyed .  this legislation simply provides the opportunity for those embryos to save lives already being lived .  lives being lived by people like tambrie alden from glens falls , ny .  tambrie has had juvenile diabetes for 28 years .  she goes through 10 daily finger sticks a day and has worn an insulin pump for 10 years .  each day brings a different battle for tambrie ; she must constantly monitor the highs and lows of her condition .  tambrie has had over 200 laser eye surgeries due to juvenile diabetes , which also continues to attack her organs ability to function properly .  on sunday , tambrie turns 47 .  she celebrates every birthday to the fullest , because when she was diagnosed with juvenile diabetes , the doctors told her she would not live past 43 .  tambrie lives on borrowed time and worries about losing her sight and not being able to see her grandchildren grow up .  she knows that embryonic stem cell research probably wo n't help her , but she prays the promise it holds will ensure that her grandchildren do n't have to suffer as she has .  that 's why we are here today , to make sure that people like tambrie can live their lives to the fullest .  this action is limited to promoting responsible research with embryos that would be destroyed otherwise .  congressional oversight on this ethically sensitive issue is the right balance to ensure that our nation remains diligent in our approach to medical research , while taking important steps to improve the quality of life for those who suffer from debilitating diseases .  the bill establishes strict standards for use of fertility clinic embryos .  first , written permission is required of the couple donating the embryo .  second , there can be no financial compensation , much like organ donation .  finally , the legislation requires the national institutes of health to establish strict oversight for the scientific community to ensure ethical guidelines are adhered to .  embryonic stem cell research is a new form of research in the early stages .  i am fundamentally opposed to cloning embryos or creating embryos for scientific research .  this legislation does not a ow cloning , it merely ensures that embryos already created and unused serve a higher purpose than being destroyed .  mr. speaker , 58 to zero .  today we are asked to sear our conscience and harden our heart towards human life so we can experiment on fertilized human embryos because we are told it holds such great promise .  the results from testing are far from promising , though .  they are very disappointing .  but there is an alternative .  the adult stem cell research has been very successful compared to embryonic stem cell research , and this success was accomplished without the destruction of human life .  in fact , more than 58 diseases have been treated using adult stem cells in contrast to no diseases having been treated by using living embryonic stem cell research .  fifty-eight to zero .  mr. speaker , how do we know the score ?  well , embryonic stem cell research is being conducted in america with private funding , but that funding is lacking .  so the labs have come to us for more money .  apparently , venture capitalists invest only in projects that are profitable , and you can see it is far from profitable here : 58 to zero .  so now we are asked to support embryo stem cell research because it is so promising , when the facts are it is not promising : 58 to zero .  mr. speaker , i rise today as a cosponsor and strong supporter of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act .  i am pleased that the house leadership brought this important legislation to the floor and am proud to be a part of the important debate occurring today .  mr. speaker , embryonic stem cells have the ability to develop into virtually any cell in the body , and many believe they may have the potential to treat many illnesses such as parkinson 's disease , juvenile diabetes , alzheimer 's , blindness , sickle cell anemia and many other medical conditions , including spinal cord injuries .  like many other issues facing us today , however , stem cell research forces us to confront the challenge of balancing long-standing ethical questions with the possibilities presented by scientific and technological advancements .  the remarks made on the floor today by my colleagues have reflected the difficulty in dealing with this issue , as many members wrestle with their beliefs and emotions .  most familiar with this issue know that in august 2001 , president bush announced that federal funds for the first time would be used to support research on human embryonic stem cells .  however , the funding would be limited to `` existing stem cell lines. '' the national institutes of health ( nih ) has established the human embryonic stem cell registry , which lists stem cell lines that are eligible for use in federally funded research .  although 78 cell lines are listed , 22 embryonic stem cell lines are currently available .  scientists are concerned about the quality , longevity , and availability of the eligible stem cell lines .  that is why i am a cosponsor of h.r. 810 , and strongly support its passage .  this important legislation increases the number of lines of stem cells that would be eligible to be used in federally funded research .  it does so , however , by requiring that the stem cells meet certain requirements .  specifically , the stem cells must be derived from human embryos donated from in vitro fertilization clinics .  they also must have been created for the purpose of fertility treatment , but were in excess of the clinical need .  the embryos must also not have been intended for use in fertility treatment , and would otherwise be discarded .  finally , under h.r. 810 , the embryos must have been donated by individuals seeking fertility treatment with informed written consent and without any financial payment or other inducement to make the donation .  mr. speaker , i have listened as member after member has come to the floor to tell a personal tale of a loved one suffering from a disease that , with additional research , stem cells could help cure .  we all have our stories mr. speaker .  my uncle , morris k. udall , who served in this body for decades , suffered from parkinson 's disease .  there are too many people across the world suffering from devastating diseases for which stem cells hold great hope and promise .  we need to foster additional research that is conducted in an ethically responsible way .  h.r. 810 does just that .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this bipartisan bill , and i will submit today 's column in the wall street journal written by dr .  david a. shaywitz , an endocrinologist in stem cell research at harvard , for the record .  i would call to the attention of my colleagues this column and particularly a couple of lines that he wrote today .  i must say that i am one that will be voting for both bills today , the cord bill as well as the castle/degette bill ; but as you compare these two bills , let me note a couple of things that this noted researcher says .  he says : `` presently , only the few lines established prior to the date , '' this is in reference to the president 's initial plan back in 2001 , `` are eligible for government support , a prohibition that has had a crippling effect on researchers in this emerging field. '' it further says , it relates to the cord bill , in essence : `` it seems extremely unlikely that adult blood cells or blood cells from the umbilical cord will be therapeutically useful as a source of anything else but blood. '' mr. speaker , there are few families that i know that have not been impacted by a myriad of these diseases .  we need help .  we need to find a cure , and that is why we need to support both pieces of legislation this afternoon .  the stem cell debate perhaps themost underrated achievement of the modern conservative movement has been a renewed appreciation for the danger of `` junk science '' -- unsubstantiated scientific research that is exploited for political gain .  how sad , then , that in the ongoing debate over stem cell research , many conservatives have chosen to abandon their well-founded skepticism and to embrace dubious but convenient data for the sake of advancing their cause .  the latest tempest has emerged from remarkably modest congressional legislation , proposed by republican michael castle and democrat diana degette and scheduled for a vote today , which would permit federal funds to be used on human embryonic stem cell lines derived after aug .  9 , 2001 .  presently , only the few lines established prior to this date are eligible for government support , a prohibition that has had a crippling effect on research in this emerging field .  human embryonic stem cells have the potential to develop into any adult cell type .  if this process of specialization could be achieved in the lab , scientists might be able to create replacement pancreas cells for diabetics , or neurons for patient with parkinson 's disease ; these treatments are likely many years away .  for some opponents of embryonic stem cell science , the argument is fundamentally one of faith : the human embryo should be held as sacrosanct , and not used for the pursuit of any ends , regardless of how nobly intended .  the trouble for such dogmatic critics of embryonic stem cell research is that most americans hold a less extreme position ; given a choice between discarding frozen , excess embryos from in vitro fertilization clinics or allowing the cells to be used for medical research -- specifically , the generation of new embryonic stem cell lines -- most of us would choose the second .  consequently , conservative stem cell opponents have now begun to argue in earnest that embryonic stem cell research is not just morally wrong , but also unnecessary , an argument that relies on suspect science and appears motivated by even more questionable principles .  first , the science : opponents of the castle-degette legislation assert that embryonic stem cells are unnecessary because adult stem cells , as well as umbilical cord blood stem cells , will perform at least as well as embryonic stem cells , and have already demonstrated their therapeutic value .  this argument appears very popular , and has been articulated by almost every member of congress who has spoken out against the new stem cell bill .  to be sure , one of the great successes of modern medicine has been the use of adult blood stem cells to treat patients with leukemia .  the trouble is generalizing from this : there are very strong data suggesting that while blood stem cells are good at making new blood cells , they are not able to turn into other types of cells , such as pancreas or brain .  the limited data purported to demonstrate the contrary are preliminary , inconclusive , unsubstantiated , or all three .  thus , it seems extremely unlikely that adult bloodcells -- or blood cells from the umbilical cord -- will be therapeutically useful as a source of anything else by blood .  moreover , while stem cells seem to exist for some cell types in the body -- the blood and the intestines , for example -- many adult tissues such as the pancreas , may not have stem cells at all .  thus , relying on adult stem cells to generate replacement insulin-producing cells for patients with diabetes is probably an exercise in futility .  for true believers , of course , these scientific facts should be beside the point ; if human embryonic stem cell research is morally , fundamentally , wrong , then it should be wrong , period , regardless of the consequences to medical research .  if conservatives believe their own rhetoric , they should vigorously critique embryonic stem cell research on its own grounds , and not rely upon an appeal to utilitarian principles .  instead , there has been a concerted effort to establish adult stem cells as a palatable alternative to embryonic stem cells .  in the process , conservatives seem to have left their usual concern for junk science at the laboratory door , citing in their defense preliminary studies and questionable data that they would surely -- and appropriately -- have ridiculed were it not supporting their current point of view .  in fact , there is little credible evidence to suggest adult stem cells have the same therapeutic potential as embryonic stem cells .  conservatives often speak of the need to abide by difficult principle ; acknowledging the limitations of adult stem cell research would seem like a good place to start .  human embryonic stem cell research represents one of the most important scientific frontiers , and also one of the most controversial : our national debate on it deserves to be informed by our loftiest ethical aspirations -- but also grounded in our most rigorous scientific standards .  mr. speaker , as a cosponsor of the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 , i believe that stem cell research holds the promise of scientific breakthroughs that could improve the lives of millions of americans .  this bi-partisan legislation would provide federal funding for a wider range of research while establishing ethical guidelines .  the most compelling arguments for expanding federal funding for stem cell research can be heard in the heart wrenching stories of individuals suffering from debilitating diseases for which there are currently no cures or treatments .  while it is too late for the countless americans who have passed away from terrible diseases , it is not too late for the millions of other americans hoping this house will support funding for this potentially life-saving resource .  for these patients and their families stem cell research is the last hope for a cure .  this bill provides that embryos that are otherwise likely to be discarded can be used to help develop treatments for debilitating diseases and life saving cures .  we should allow federally supported research to proceed to find such treatments and cures .  mr. speaker , the gentleman that just preceded me , speaking to the house , said that he did not think this experimentation would work .  well , there is no way it will ever work if we do not allow the research to take place .  there can be nothing that is more pro-life than trying to pursue research that scientists tell us will lead to cures for ms and diabetes and parkinson 's and other terrible diseases that people now suffer and die from .  some people have said , well , let us have an alternative ; let us use the stem cells from the umbilical cord .  mr. speaker , that is not a replacement for embryonic stem cell research that would occur if we passed h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act .  we need to ensure that scientists have access to all types of stem cells , both adult and embryonic .  rather than opening the doors to research , the president 's policy of stopping this work at nih has set the united states back .  it has meant that researchers who see the promise are leaving the national institutes of health .  it means the edge that this country has had as a leader of research is now falling behind and we look to other countries who are going to take our place .  for the sake of those who are suffering , for the sake of what science can bring to us , for the sake of life , i urge the adoption of this legislation .  i do not think it is a good enough excuse to hold up a clump of cells and say , this we value and this we will protect , and then to look at our friends and our colleagues , people we know and people we do not even know , and tell them their lives we do not value .  the united states is poised to assume a role of leading the world in this promising field .  vote for this legislation that will make it possible .  mr. speaker , i commend the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce and his staff , as well as the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , for their diligent work on bringing this very , very good bill to the floor of the house .  what we are going to be voting for here will help create a banking system so that if a patient comes in to see me with a particular illness that is amenable to treatment with stem cells , i can enter their genetic information in a computer , find a match of cord blood that would be kept in a freezer , and actually treat the patient .  it is really exciting , i have to say .  i never thought i would live to see the day where we would be curing sickle cell anemia .  and for those of my colleagues who do not know about sickle cell anemia , sickle cell is a terrible disease .  you get these young people , kids , coming in your office with these horrible , painful crises where their bones are aching and you end up having to give them narcotics and transfuse them .  it stunts their growth , horrible condition .  we now have 10 , 10 kids that have been cured of sickle cell anemia .  just yesterday i was flying up here , and as i often do , i grabbed some medical journals to read on the plane .  i was reading the may 19 issue of the new england journal of medicine and , lo and behold , another research article , this one on transplantation of umbilical cord blood in babies with infantile krabbe 's disease , a rare disease , a terrible disease , the babies die ; and this cord blood study shows if you catch it early , you can actually cure these kids .  i know there have been a number of members coming to the floor talking about the embryonic bill that we are going to take up later ; the embryonic stem cells have never been shown to be successfully useful in a human model .  they do not even have one case .  we have thousands of people who have been treated with adult stem cells and these cord blood treatments .  i just want to correct the gentleman from alabama .  he has implied some of us are against stem cell research .  that is not the case at all here .  we are just for ethical stem cell research .  mr. speaker , i rise again to set the record straight .  there have been some people who have implied there is limited capacity for these cord blood stems to be used successfully .  they have been shown to be pluripotent .  they can become all different cell types , and they have shown a tremendous amount of plasticity .  this poster is of a young lady who was paralyzed for years and had an adult stem cell transplant .  she is able to stand up .  but i just want to clarify on the cord blood , it has been used to treat leukemia , adrenoleukodystrophy , burkitt 's lymphoma , chronic granulomatous diseases , congenital neutropenia , digeorge 's syndrome , fanconi 's anemia , and these are just some of them , gaucher 's disease .  hodgkin 's disease , cord blood has been used successfully to treat hodgkin 's disease ; idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura , which is a really bad disease .  i used to see some of those .  krabbe 's disease i mentioned earlier , that was just in the new england journal this month .  lymphoma ; lymphoproliferative syndrome ; myelofibrosis ; neuroblastoma , which is a form of brain tumor which has been successfully treated with cord blood .  osteopetrosis has been successfully treated .  reticular dysgenesis , severe aplastic anemia .  the list goes on and on .  there are 65 different medical conditions that have been successfully treated with cord blood .  people have mentioned diabetes .  embryonic stem cells have not been successfully used to treat diabetes either , but actually in animal models adult stem cells have been used successfully to treat diabetes .  i think most of the hope and success is in this cord blood .  that is why this bill is very , very important .  mr. speaker , as most of my colleagues know , i practice general internal medicine and i still do it .  i have treated a lot of patients with diabetes , parkinson 's ; indeed , my father died of complications of diabetes .  my uncle , his brother , died of complications of parkinson 's disease .  let us just talk a little bit about how we got here , okay ?  this body voted years ago , no federal funding for research that involves the destruction of a human embryo .  and president clinton , towards the tail end of his administration , did an end run around the congressional prohibition , and they were having outside labs destroy the embryos , get the embryonic stem cells and send them over to nih .  and i sent the president a letter telling him , you are violating the spirit of the law , if not the letter of the law .  when president bush became president , a lot of us alerted him to this problem , and he came out with his policy .  and i thought it was really like a solomon-like compromise .  he said , we will not allow any more federal funds to be used that involve the killing of human embryos , but we will allow research to proceed on the existing cell lines .  and i sit on the committee that funds this .  we have funded this research to the tune of $ 60 million over the last 3 years , embryonic stem cell research , what you are asking for more of .  and the only place that i can find the research results printed is , i have to go to the rat-and-mouse journals .  and the results are bad .  these things tend to form tumors .  the plasticity that some of you extol in these embryonic stem cells make them genetically unstable .  they tend to form tumors .  we call them teratomas in the medical profession .  they grow hair and they grow teeth .  they are genetically unstable .  meanwhile , on the adult stem cell line it is breakthrough after breakthrough after breakthrough .  indeed , the gentlewoman from colorado said in her opening statement , there is no , no scientific evidence that will show that cord blood or adult stem cells will cure alzheimer 's , parkinson 's or type 1 diabetes .  parkinson 's disease was successfully treated 6 years ago in dennis turner using an adult stem cell .  he had an 80 percent reduction in his symptoms .  this was described at the american association of neurological surgeons annual meeting in april of 2002 .  in 2003 , science-published harvard researchers announced they had achieved a permanent reversal of diabetes in mice .  this is now under human clinical trials today , while we speak .  by the way , they tried to repeat that study using embryonic , mouse embryonic stem cells and it failed .  and this lady was in a wheelchair and she can now stand up with adult stem cells .  we do not need this bill .  it is ethically wrong .  we should be voting `` no . '' mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding time to me , and i commend the gentleman for his leadership on this issue .  we have heard a lot of discussion of the three known forms of stem cell therapies that are hypothesized to treat all these diseases .  one of the nice things about adult stem cell treatments and why i think they have been embraced , and part of the reason they have been so successful is , if you use a cell from your own body , there are no tissue rejection concerns .  if you use a cord blood or placental blood stem cell , there are tissue rejection concerns ; but it is felt by the advocates of the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith 's ) bill , such as myself , that by obtaining the bank , we would be able to enter all of your genetic information and come up with a match .  and one of the questions i have for my colleagues who have been an advocate for the castle/degette bill is , how , if these embryonic cells were ever proven to be useful , and that has yet to be demonstrated in the literature , how would you override the tissue rejection concerns ?  mr. speaker , it takes us to a very important part of this debate that we really have not dwelled on very much .  they say there are 400 , 000 embryos in the freezers , but the truth is the vast majority of those embryos are wanted , and their own studies suggest only 275 cell lines will be available if this bill becomes law .  mr. speaker , the place we are going to have to go to make embryonic stem cell work , if it ever can be demonstrated to work , is creating human embryos for this purpose .  and that really brings me to my point .  if you are going to go down the road of creating human embryos , you really only have two options .  you are going to need tens of thousands of women to donate their eggs , or you are going to have to clone .  and that is why people like myself have been saying , wait to see what is next , because that is going to be the next debate .  if this becomes law , we are going to be asked to embrace federal funding for creating human life for this research .  no longer using the so-called excess embryos , but either exploiting women for their eggs or worse , we are going down the path of cloning .  and i assure you , if you find those options objectionable , they will be cloaked with the same kind of arguments that have been used to support this bill .  people will say it is for the purpose of helping the sick and suffering .  and what i have been saying over and over again , if you actually read the medical journals , the promise and the potential appear to be in the ethically acceptable alternatives of adult stem research and cord blood research .  reject this bill .  vote `` no '' on castle/degette .  mr. speaker , this is a difficult issue for me .  i am a diabetic .  i have diabetes in my family .  i am cochairman of the congressional diabetes caucus .  my wife is a full-time diabetes educator .  she has spent her entire time as a health care professional educating and working with diabetics .  the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. langevin )  are very good friends of mine .  i have studied all their information .  i have tried to be as open about this as i possibly can be .  but i can say , mr. speaker , that in the end it comes down to not eliminating any type of research , because that is allowable in this country ; it is whether or not we should use federal funds .  california is using some $ 3 billion right now on what this bill is attempting to deal with .  in the end , mr. speaker , this is a very personal decision .  it is one that i agonized over .  i am not a medical professional .  i consulted with all four of my friends who are medical doctors in this chamber .  they have studied medicine , they understand medical research , they understand bioethics far better than i ever will , and i come down on their side .  i come down on the side of life .  i will oppose the bill that is being offered by my friend , the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and my friend , the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  and i will support the alternative that is being offered by this conference .  mr. speaker , i oppose this bill and support the president 's position on embryonic stem cells .  let 's be clear .  embryonic stem cell research is legal in america today , and nothing in the administration 's current policy has affected the legality of this research .  the administration 's policy simply provides that federal taxpayer dollars not be used to destroy human embryos .  i believe most americans , when they understand this , agree with the administration .  but this rule does not in any way limit the private sector from pursuing embryonic stem cell research .  but ultimately , mr. speaker , no one can deny that this debate involves profound ethical and moral questions .  this is a matter of conscience for millions of americans who are deeply troubled by the idea of their own funds being used to destroy another human life .  for many of my colleagues , and for me , this is a vote of conscience .  let the private sector go forward , if it must , with the destruction of embryos for ethically questionable science .  but spend the people 's money on proven blood cord , bone marrow and adult stem cell research .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this bill and all of the promise that comes with funding embryonic stem cell research .  this bill represents an important step forward for the scientific and medical communities in our country , offering hope to the millions of americans who suffer from diseases that stem cell therapies may be able to cure .  unfortunately , president bush has threatened to veto this bill when it arrives on his desk .  i am appalled that a president who talks so much about embracing a `` culture of life '' would deny funding for a possible cure that could save a child from suffering from juvenile diabetes ; repair a damaged spinal cord to allow a person to walk again ; save a grandparent from the onset of alzheimer 's disease ; or put a halt to the ravages of parkinson 's disease .  the potential benefits from embryonic stem cell research are almost boundless and would certainly touch the life of a friend or family member of everyone in america .  mr. bush 's ban on providing federal funds for stem cell research has seriously damaged our nation 's efforts to be a leading voice in the development of this new technology .  allowing federal funding for research on stem cells is vital to making real progress as quickly as possible to find real cures .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill that will certainly have long-lasting effects in improving the health and well being of millions of americans .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this stem cell research bill .  the science will go on with or without the united states .  diabetes , alzheimer 's , lou gehrig 's disease , these diseases will be cured either here in the united states or somewhere else in the world .  this bill is not about human cloning , which i oppose .  an embryo is special tissue .  we should not create them with the intent to terminate them later .  but here , the embryos were created with the intent to bring more children into the world .  many eggs were fertilized in this process and , once a baby is born , many fertilized eggs are left over , created with the intention to create a baby .  as oliver wendell holmes stated , even a dog can tell the difference between a stumble and a kick .  juries determine intent all the time and , here , intent is crucial .  these cells were created with the intention of creating human life , and the only alternate fate for them now is disposal .  let us not waste potential human life ; let us not waste these fertilized eggs by destroying them .  let us use them to save human lives through stem cell research .  support the castle-degette bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 2520 , which combines legislation i introduced and passed in the 108th congress to reauthorize the national bone marrow registry with legislation by my colleague from new jersey , mr. smith  to authorize a federal investment in building an inventory of 150 , 000 umbilical cord blood units .  this life-saving bill is good for patients , good for transplant doctors , good for researchers and it represents good policy for our nation .  i would like to take this opportunity to thank many colleagues for bringing this legislation to the floor .  let me thank the chairman of the energy and commerce committee , mr. barton  for providing the leadership to advance this important bill .  his commitment to providing sound national policy in this area of stem cell transplantation has produced an excellent legislative design that will benefit thousands of patients immediately upon enactment .  i would also like to thank my friend , mr. this legislation builds on the investment made by congress 18 years ago when we established a national bone marrow donor program to save the lives of patients with leukemia and many other blood disorders .  countless dedicated doctors , patients , families , and research scientists have continued to pioneer new approaches to saving lives using these blood stem cells from bone marrow and now umbilical cord blood cells .  this bill authorizes funding for 5 years to continue federal support for bone marrow , peripheral blood and umbilical cord blood transplantation and research .  with this legislation , transplant doctors and patients will have an enhanced , single point of electronic access to the full array of information on possible bone marrow matches , as well as matches with cord blood units from the new national inventory which would be created .  in a matter of minutes , physicians can review the options and reserve the best possible sources for their patients .  in addition , the new effort will facilitate accreditation of cord blood banks , stimulate research , and collect and share data on the outcomes of all transplants .  last month , at the request of our appropriations committee direction , the institute of medicine released its report on cord blood and how the inventory should be built and integrated into the existing national registry .  this bill before us has been shaped by the guidance provided through the iom process and during the past year-and-a-half a consensus has been building for moving forward to combine our activities in bone marrow and cord blood .  that consensus has formed the basis for this legislation .  mr. speaker , this literally is life saving legislation .  through the efforts of the national marrow donor program -- which this congress initiated in 1987 -- many lives have already been saved .  to date , the program has facilitated almost 21 , 000 unrelated transplants involving bone marrow , cord blood or peripheral blood .  that means 21 , 000 individuals -- both children and adults who are otherwise suffering from terminal disease -- received the gift of life through this national program .  when the program first started , our goal was to build a national registry of 250 , 000 individuals willing to donate marrow .  mr. speaker , we found that the human spirit responded to our efforts in ways that we could not imagine .  i am proud to say that as of this month , the national bone marrow registry has more than 5.6 million potential bone marrow donors signed up .  in addition , the program has an additional 41 , 666 units of umbilical cord blood in reserve for transplant through its network of 15 affiliated cord blood banks throughout the country .  total transplants from all sources for last year alone exceeded 2500 .  let me repeat -- we have 5.6 million volunteer bone marrow donors signed up in the national program .  these are true volunteers in every sense of the word .  they have given of their time to take a simple blood test to be listed in the national registry .  for more than 20 , 000 who have been called upon to donate bone marrow , they have undergone a relatively simple surgical procedure to donate their bone marrow to save the life of a man , woman or child with anyone of more than 85 different diseases .  another 41 , 000 women have donated umbilical cord blood which can be used in the same way as bone marrow , to transplant life giving cells to cure disease .  this legislation will provide the funding to greatly increase the number of cord blood units that can be collected and stored .  nineteen million dollars has already been appropriated for this purpose over the past two years and this legislation will allow that immediate infusion of funds into building up reserves of umbilical cord blood .  the scientific reason for this is clear .  thanks to research , cord blood has now become another very important source for obtaining and transplanting the particular cell found in bone marrow and peripheral blood that can restore health to those suffering from so many different diseases .  in addition , by building up the cord blood inventory , the overall resource will be much more likely to meet the needs of patients from genetically diverse , ethnic populations .  it is estimated that adding 150 , 000 new cord blood units to the number of existing bone marrow donors will provide potential cell matches for about 95 percent of all americans .  mr. speaker , this national effort is a true modern miracle and this new legislation will reinforce and strengthen the program .  today , our national bone marrow program is affiliated with 156 transplant centers , 82 donor centers , 15 cord blood banks , 102 transplant marrow collection centers and 82 apheresis centers .  of these , 72 are international facilities .  having had the great pleasure to meet with hundreds of donors and patients , i can tell you that donating bone marrow or cord blood can be a true life-changing experience .  the experience of giving life to another human being is beyond mere words .  mr. speaker , there are many people who have been heroes in this effort and need to be recognized for their contributions .  the first is a little 10 year old girl who died of leukemia at all children 's hospital in my home district of st .  petersburg 18 years ago .  brandy bly might have been saved from leukemia back in 1987 if matched bone marrow or cord blood cells had been available .  it was during her treatment that i first learned from doctors how difficult it is to find a compatible , unrelated bone marrow donor .  her death inspired me , and her doctor -- dr .  jerry barbosa -- inspired me to help find a way to build a national bone marrow program .  there were other early medical pioneers , like the late dr .  robert goode , dr .  john hansen and dr .  donnell thomas -- all who helped perfect the science of marrow transplantation and who assisted us in our legislative quest to establish there have been many members of congress , past and present , who have stood together with me over the years to develop and fund the program that we reauthorize and enhance today .  i thank each and every one for your dedication .  we must recognize the staff and members of the board of the national marrow donor program and the marrow foundation who have volunteered their time to establish and grow a finely tuned international registry program .  and we must recognize the dedicated doctors and medical teams at transplant and donor centers around the nation who use their medical expertise to perform the transplants and save lives .  dr .  joanne kurtzberg , the head transplant doctor at duke university 's blood bank center , is the epitome of a dedicated , caring and highly knowledgeable physician who works hard to save lives .  we must recognize the pioneering cord blood research of dr .  pablo rubenstein and dr .  cladd stevens at the new york blood center , and dr .  claude lenfant , the former director of the national heart , lung and blood institute at nih who initiated the major coblt study on cord blood banking and transplantation .  the ultimate true heroes of the national effort are the patients and donors .  every patient who has sought a marrow or cord blood transplant has helped in the overall effort to gain more scientific knowledge on perfecting the transplant process .  every patient helps all those who will follow .  and every donor who has rolled up his or her sleeve to sign up for the national bone marrow program , or every family that has decided to donate umbilical cord blood , are heroes for taking part in giving the ultimate gift of life .  mr. speaker , in closing let me again thank chairman barton and mr. smith for their leadership in enhancing this great national program .  let me thank every member of this house for their support for the efforts we started 18 years ago on behalf of patients everywhere .  with your support , we will provide hope -- and a second chance at life -- to thousands of patients today and into the future .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 810 , but in strong support of adult stem cell research as it respects life .  an embryo is a human at its earliest stage of life and deserves the same respect that we give infants , adolescents and adults .  during this debate , some would attempt to justify embryonic stem cell research on the basis that we are dealing with something other than real human beings .  we use the words stem cell , but we could also use the words nathan and noah .  these are justifications based on definitions of life that are purely arbitrary .  indeed , a human at the embryonic stage may look a little different than a human at the adult stage , but that does not make the embryo any less a human .  the embryo possesses the genetic identity as it will as an adult .  it is merely at an earlier stage in life .  just as we find it unconscionable and unethical to exploit human life in the name of science during the latter stages of life , neither should we accept the exploitation of human life at its earliest stages .  instead , we should focus our resources on supporting medical research such as cord blood and adult stem cell research that respect human lives and have an actual track record of creating cures .  vote against h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i rise in support of h.r. 2520 , which i really view as a noncontroversial , bipartisan piece of legislation that we should all be able to agree on .  i think one speaker a moment ago talked about science and our obligation to promote science .  i would agree with him , but with this caveat : science tells us what we can do ; science does not tell us what we should do .  that is an ethical dimension , and we are called upon oftentimes to decide what the ethical thing to do is .  here we have a piece of legislation dealing with an emerging area of science , but one that has already proven itself to be effective in human application and one that also shows itself to be easily obtained , that is , we either throw away umbilical cords , throw away the umbilical cord and the placenta at the time of birth , or we save the blood that can be captured at that time to make it available such that the stem cells can be taken from that and utilized in this therapeutic fashion .  this bill would also allow us to do research with these stem cells .  there is a tremendous frontier out there .  there is a tremendous frontier that shows tremendous opportunity for success .  i do not want to overhype it .  i do not know far it will go , but certainly it has not gotten the attention that needs to be given it .  when we talk about stem cells , we can talk about how we obtain the stem cells .  we can do it in several ways .  and there is an ethical dimension , an ethical dilemma that exists with respect to the second bill that will be up today .  there is no such dilemma that exists with respect to this bill .  we can obtain this in very easy ways , voluntarily , asking mothers at the time their children are born to donate these units such that others might be helped .  we have been laggard in our approach to this particular area of science .  again , i say , where we have no ethical question , where we have strong support from the scientific community , we should do no less than to support this bill strongly .  mr. speaker , just in response to what was said on the floor , this is a statement that has appeared on the floor , and also in print , which says that the bill before us prohibits federal funding used for the destruction of embryos .  by its very definition , it requires the destruction of embryos when it does the research .  that ought to be very clear .  the process talked about requires the destruction of embryos .  mr. speaker , i am one of seven children .  i am the second oldest .  my older brother john is 2 years and 2 days older than i. we grew up together closer than any other members of the family .  after i left this house on the first occasion , within 2 years , my brother developed parkinson 's .  he has now suffered with it for 15 years .  i have learned a lot of things from my brother , but one of the things i learned most of all was there is a difference between right and wrong .  there is a moral dimension in most of the serious issues that we must face .  would i like to support embryonic stem cell research without a question of ethics because it might assist my brother ?  sure .  would i like to see embryonic stem cell research in the area of cancer where it might have helped one of my sisters who has had cancer ?  yes .  would i like to see it in terms of research of cancer that plagues 4-year-old children like my nephew ?  of course .  but can we divorce all of that from the ethical norm that we must present here ?  we look back in history and , yes , america has oftentimes promoted science .  but america has made mistakes in the past .  the worst mistakes we have ever made in the history of this nation have been when we have defined a part of the human family as less than fully human and then done things to them that we would not allow done to ourselves .  we have done it with slavery .  we have done it with the tuskegee medical experiments .  other countries have done it as well .  the commonality among all of those mistakes , the greatest mistakes in our nation 's history , has been the ease with which we defined members of the human family as less than fully human .  we are talking about embryonic stem cell research that requires the destruction of the embryo , the destruction of part of the human family .  we should remember that as we talk here today .  we should resolve doubt in favor of life as we do in our criminal justice system , as we do in our civil law system .  mr. speaker , i rise today to express my support for the stem cell research enhancement act , h.r. 810 .  i would like to thank representatives castle and degette for their leadership on this important issue .  recent advancements in medical technology have created hope for the millions of people , and their families , who suffer from the effects of diseases like alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , and diabetes .  stem cell research may hold the key to better treatment options , and even a cure , for diseases like these and others .  many of us will have lasting images of president ronald reagan and christopher reeves as their frail bodies deteriorated over the years .  and i will never forget my own father 's battle against alzheimer 's and how his slow deterioration and passing impacted our family .  their personal health battles took on a new meaning as the public debate heated up over the merits and ethics of embryonic stem cell research .  as we look towards the future of medical research , we must always proceed with strict ethical caution .  i believe the castle/degette legislation meets this criteria by establishing strict requirements for which new embryonic stem cell lines would be eligible for federal funding .  federal funding of embryonic stem cell research would mean that research could advance at a faster pace while providing stringent requirements and oversight of the research .  national and international involvement is needed to ensure research institutions and companies do not intentionally or unintentionally overreach their bounds .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time .  i want to congratulate the chairman and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  and the gentleman from alabama ( mr. davis )  for their leadership .  what we are doing with this legislation is that we are celebrating life and we are celebrating science .  our debate today and this bill , this bill is so very important because it is not often that politicians get it right when dealing with health care or science .  i know .  as a physician i have seen government inject itself in places it ought not go and spend countless dollars on fanciful and distorted claims .  however , h.r. 2520 will save lives and improve the quality of life for millions .  and i know this because it will increase the use of a science that has already been proven .  as a new member of congress , i am proud to stand before you and lend my support to a positive and productive piece of legislation that will bring sunlight to those who have experienced too many clouds , and it will do so in an unquestionable and ethical manner .  i commend the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , and the gentleman from alabama ( mr. davis )  for their persistence , their cooperation , and their leadership .  mr. speaker , as a physician , i know that respected scientists believe that misrepresentations and exaggerated claims in this debate are not only scientifically irresponsible , they are deceptive and cruel to millions of patients and their families who hope desperately for cures .  it seems to me that there is one unmistakable fact .  many in our society have sincere , heartfelt , passionate , ethical questions , worthy of our respect , regarding the scientific or medical use of embryonic stem cells .  if our goal is truly to cure diseases and help patients , science tells us that today the use of adult and cord stem cells has successfully treated or holds real potential for treating nearly 60 diseases .  the same can not be said for embryonic stem cells , and adult stem cells carry none of the ethical questions or dilemma of embryonic stem cells .  i support stem cell research , active , aggressive and scientifically based , with respect for the difficult ethical questions we face today .  i urge my colleagues to join me in respecting science , in respecting ethical concerns .  if we do , we will recognize that stem cell research and treatment of disease should actively proceed with those adult and cord stem cells that are providing and will increasingly provide excellent and exciting cures for patients in need .  mr. speaker , as a physician i 'm certain of one thing : science is not republican or democrat , science is not conservative or liberal .  science is science .  decisions in science should be based on the scientific method -- a standardized method of evaluation and implementation of a solution or treatment of a disease .  when followed , it allows for the greatest amount of critical thinking about any issue .  if followed , it results in the best outcome .  this would be true in public policy as well .  if not followed in a legislative body , then decisions tend to be made based upon who has the largest group of supporters or greatest passion and emotion .  now there is nothing wrong with numbers , passion or emotion , it just may not get you to the correct solution -- especially in the scientific arena .  there has been significant misrepresentation of science today and in this debate , because `` science is not a policy or a political program .  science is a systematic method for developing and testing hypotheses about the physical world .  it does not promise miracle cures based on scanty evidence .  ... ..  statements ... ..  made regarding the purported medical applications of embryonic stem cells reach far beyond any credible evidence , ignoring the limited state of our knowledge about embryonic stem cells and the advances in other areas of research that may render use of these cells unnecessary for many applications .  to make such exaggerated claims , at this stage of our knowledge , is not only scientifically irresponsible -- it is deceptive and cruel to millions of patients and their families who hope desperately for cures and have come to rely on the scientific community for accurate information .  ... ..  non-embryonic stem cells '' on the other hand have a history `` very different from that of embryonic stem cells. '' cord and adult stem cells are `` producing undoubted clinical benefits and ... ..  ( b ) one marrow transplants '' have benefited `` therefore ... ..  to declare that '' embryonic stem cell research `` will ... ..  receive any particular amount of federal funding , regardless of future evidence or the usual scientific peer review process -- is ... ..  irresponsible .  it is , in fact , a subordination of science to ideology .  `` because politicians , biotechnology interests and even some scientists have publicly exaggerated the `` promise '' of embryonic stem cells , public perceptions of this avenue have become skewed and unrealistic .  politicians may hope to benefit from these false hopes to win elections .  ... ..  the scientific and medical professions have no such luxury .  when desperate patients discover that they have been subjected to a salesman 's pitch rather than an objective and candid assessment of possibilities , we have reason to fear public backlash against the credibility of our profession .  we urge you not to exacerbate this problem now by repeating false promises that exploit patients ' hopes for political gain. '' i have quoted from a letter signed by 57 scientists -- md 's and phd 's -- written during last year 's presidential campaign .  it expressed real concern about a cavalier public posture and policy during a debate on such a sensitive ethical matter .  it seems to me that there is one unmistakable fact : many in our society have sincere , heartfelt , passionate , ethical questions , worthy of our respect , regarding the scientific or medical use of es cells .  if our goal is truly to cure diseases and help patients , science tells us that today the use of adult and cord stem cells has successfully treated or holds real potential for treating nearly 60 diseases .  the same can not be said for es cells .  and adult stem cells carry none of the ethical questions or dilemma of es cells .  i support stem cell research -- active , aggressive , scientifically based -- with respect for the difficult ethical questions we face today .  i urge my colleagues to join me in respecting current science -- in respecting ethical concerns .  if we do , we will recognize that stem cell research and treatment of disease should actively proceed with those adult and cord stem cells that are providing and will increasingly provide excellent and exciting cures for patients in need .  october 27 , 2004 .  dear senator kerry : recently you have made the promotion of embryonic stem cell research , including the cloning of human embryos for research purposes , into a centerpiece of your campaign .  you have said you will make such research a `` top priority '' for government , academia and medicine ( los angeles times , 10/17/04 ) .  you have even equated support for this research with respect for `` science , '' and said that science must be freed from `` ideology '' to produce miracle cures for numerous diseases .  as professionals trained in the life sciences we are alarmed at these statements .  first , your statements misrepresent science .  in itself , science is not a policy or a political program .  science is a systematic method for developing and testing hypotheses about the physical world .  it does not `` promise '' miracle cures based on scanty evidence .  when scientists make such assertions , they are acting as individuals , out of their own personal faith and hopes , not as the voice of `` science '' .  if such scientists allow their individual faith in the future of embryonic stem cell research to be interpreted as a reliable prediction of the outcome of this research , they are acting irresponsibly .  second , it is no mere `` ideology '' to be concerned about the possible misuse of humans in scientific research .  federal bioethics advisory groups , serving under both democratic and republican presidents , have affirmed that the human embryo is a developing form of human life that deserves respect .  indeed you have said that human life begins at conception , that fertilization produces a `` human being. '' to equate concern for these beings with mere `` ideology '' is to dismiss the entire history of efforts to protect human subjects from research abuse .  third , the statements you have made regarding the purported medical applications of embryonic stem cells reach far beyond any credible evidence , ignoring the limited state of our knowledge about embryonic stem cells and the advances in other areas of research that may render use of these cells unnecessary for many applications .  to make such exaggerated claims , at this stage of our knowledge , is not only scientifically irresponsible -- it is deceptive and cruel to millions of patients and their families who hope desperately for cures and have come to rely on the scientific community for accurate information .  what does science tell us about embryonic stem cells ?  the facts can be summed up as follows : at present these cells can be obtained only by destroying live human embryos at the blastocyst ( 4-7 days old ) stage .  they proliferate rapidly and are extremely versatile , ultimately capable ( in an embryonic environment ) of forming any kind of cell found in the developed human body .  yet there is scant scientific evidence that embryonic stem cells will form normal tissues in a culture dish , and the very versatility of these cells is now known to be a disadvantage as well -- embryonic stem cells are difficult to develop into a stable cell line , spontaneously accumulate genetic abnormalities in culture , and are prone to uncontrollable growth and tumor formation when placed in almost 25 years of research using mouse embryonic stem cells have produced limited indications of clinical benefit in some animals , as well as indications of serious and potentially lethal side-effects .  based on this evidence , claims of a safe and reliable treatment for any disease in humans are premature at best .  embryonic stem cells obtained by destroying cloned human embryos pose an additional ethical issue -- that of creating human lives solely to destroy them for research -- and may pose added practical problems as well .  the cloning process is now known to produce many problems of chaotic gene expression , and this may affect the usefulness and safety of these cells .  nor is it proven that cloning will prevent all rejection of embryonic stem cells , as even genetically matched stem cells from cloning are sometimes rejected by animal hosts .  some animal trials in research cloning have required placing cloned embryos in a womb and developing them to the fetal stage , then destroying them for their more developed tissues , to provide clinical benefit -- surely an approach that poses horrific ethical issues if applied to humans .  non-embryonic stem cells have also received increasing scientific attention .  here the trajectory has been very different from that of embryonic stem cells : instead of developing these cells and deducing that they may someday have a clinical use , researchers have discovered them producing undoubted clinical benefits and then sought to better understand how and why they work so they can be put to more uses .  bone marrow transplants were benefiting patients with various forms of cancer for many years before it was understood that the active ingredients in these transplants are stem cells .  non-embryonic stem cells have been discovered in many unexpected tissues -- in blood , nerve , fat , skin , muscle , umbilical cord blood , placenta , even dental pulp -- and dozens of studies indicate that they are far more versatile than once thought .  use of these cells poses no serious ethical problem , and may avoid all problems of tissue rejection if stem cells can be obtained from a patient for use in that same patient .  clinical use of non-embryonic stem cells has grown greatly in recent in the case of many conditions , advances are likely to come from sources other than any kind of stem cell .  for example , there is a strong scientific consensus that complex diseases such as alzheimer 's are unlikely to be treated by any stem cell therapy .  when asked recently why so many people nonetheless believe that embryonic stem cells will provide a cure for alzheimer 's disease , nih stem cell expert ron mckay commented that `` people need a fairy tale '' ( washington post , june 10 , 2004 , page a3 ) .  similarly , autoimmune diseases like juvenile in short , embryonic stem cells pose one especially controversial avenue toward understanding and ( perhaps ) someday treating various degenerative diseases .  based on the available evidence , no one can predict with certainty whether they will ever produce clinical benefits -- much less whether they will produce benefits unobtainable by other , less ethically problematic means .  therefore , to turn this one approach into a political campaign -- even more , to declare that it will be a `` top priority '' or receive any particular amount of federal funding , regardless of future evidence or the usual scientific peer review process -- is , in our view , irresponsible .  it is , in fact , a subordination of science to ideology .  because politicians , biotechnology interests and even some scientists have publicly exaggerated the `` promise '' of embryonic stem cells , public perceptions of this avenue have become skewed and unrealistic .  politicians may hope to benefit from these false hopes to win elections , knowing that the collision of these hopes with reality will come only after they win their races .  the scientific and medical professions have no such luxury .  when desperate patients discover that they have been subjected to a salesman 's pitch rather than an objective and candid assessment of possibilities , we have reason to fear a public backlash against the credibility of our professions .  we urge you not to exacerbate this problem now by repeating false promises that exploit patients ' hopes for political gain .  signed , rodney d. adam , m.d. , professor of medicine and microbiology/immunology , university of arizona college of medicine .  michael j. behe , ph.d. , professor of biological sciences , lehigh university .  thomas g. benoit , ph.d. , professor and chairman of biology , mcmurry university , abilene , tx .  david l. bolender , ph.d. , department of cell biology , neurobiology and anatomy , medical college of wisconsin .  daniel l. burden , ph.d. , assistant professor of chemistry , wheaton college .  william j. burke , m.d. , ph.d. , professor in neurology , associate professor in medicine , associate professor in neurobiology , saint louis university medical center .  mark w. burket , m.d. , professor of medicine , division of cardiology , medical college of ohio .  w .  malcolm byrnes , ph.d. , assistant professor , department of biochemistry and molecular biology , howard university college of medicine .  steven calvin , m.d. , assistant professor of ob/gyn and women 's health , co-chair , program in human rights in medicine , university of minnesota school of medicine .  james carroll , m.d. , professor of neurology , pediatrics , and biochemistry and molecular biology , medical college of georgia .  john r. chaffee , m.d. , assistant clinical professor , department of family medicine , university of washington .  robert chasuk , m.d. , clinical assistant professor , department of family medicine , tulane university .  william p. cheshire , jr. , m.d. , associate professor of neurology , mayo clinic .  richard a. chole , m.d. , ph.d. , professor and head of otolaryngology , washington university in st .  louis , school of medicine .  maureen l. condic , ph.d. , associate professor , department of neurobiology and anatomy , university of utah school of medicine .  keith a. crist , ph.d. , associate professor , department of surgery , medical college of ohio .  keith a. crutcher , ph.d. , professor , department of neurosurgery , university of cincinnati medical center .  frank dennehy , m.d. , faafp , assistant clinical professor of family medicine , virginia commonwealth university .  kenneth j. dormer , m.s. , ph.d. , professor of physiology , university of oklahoma college of medicine .  lawrence w. elmer , m.d. , ph.d. , associate professor , dept .  of neurology director , parkinson 's disease and movement disorder program , medical director , center for neurological disorders , medical college of ohio .  kevin t. fitzgerald , sj , ph.d. , david p. lauler chair in catholic health care ethics , research associate professor , department of oncology , georgetown university medical center .  raymond f. gasser , ph.d. , professor , department of cell biology and anatomy , louisiana state university school of medicine .  hans geisler , m.d. , clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology , indiana university medical center .  donald a. godfrey , ph.d. , professor of otolaryngology , department of surgery , medical college of ohio .  samuel hensley , m.d. , assistant clinical professor , school of medicine , university of mississippi .  david c. hess , m.d. , professor and chairman , department of neurology , medical college of georgia .  paul j. hoehner , m.d. , ma , ph.d. , faha associate professor , department of anesthesiology , the university of virginia school of medicine .  c .  christopher hook , m.d. , consultant in hematology and internal medicine , assistant professor of medicine , mayo clinic college of medicine .  elizabeth a. johnson , m.d. , consultant , hematology/oncology , mayo clinic jacksonville assistant professor of oncology , mayo clinic college of medicine .  nancy l. jones , ph.d. , associate professor of pathology , wake forest university school of medicine .  c .  ward kischer , ph.d. , emeritus professor , cell biology and anatomy , specialty in human embryology , university of arizona college of medicine .  kirsten j lampi , m.s. , ph.d. , associate professor of integrative biosciences , school of dentistry , oregon health sciences university .  john i. lane , m.d. , assistant professor of radiology , mayo clinic school of medicine .  david l. larson , m.d. , professor and chairman , department of plastic surgery , medical college of wisconsin .  micheline mathews-roth , m.d. , associate professor of medicine , harvard medical school .  roger r. markwald , ph.d. , professor and chair , department of cell biology and anatomy , medical university of south carolina .  victor e. marquez , ph.d. , chief , laboratory of medicinal chemistry , center for cancer research , national cancer institute , frederick , maryland .  ralph p. miech , m.d. , ph.d. , associate professor emeritus , department of molecular pharmacology , physiology & amp ; biotechnology , brown university school of medicine .  mary ann myers , m.d. , associate professor , medical college of ohio .  rimas j. orentas , ph.d. , associate professor of pediatrics , hematology-oncology section , medical college of wisconsin .  robert d. orr , m.d. , cm , clinical ethicist and professor , university of vermont college of medicine .  jean d. peduzzi-nelson , ph.d. , research associate professor , department of visual sciences , university of alabama at birmingham .  edmund d. pellegrino , m.d. , emeritus professor , medicine and medical ethics , center for clinical bioethics , georgetown university medical center .  john a. petros , m.d. , associate professor , urology and pathology , emory university .  david a. prentice , ph.d. , affiliated scholar , center for clinical bioethics , georgetown university medical center .  paul j. ranalli , m.d. , frcpc , lecturer , division of neurology , department of medicine , university of toronto .  john f. rebhun , ph.d. , adjunct scientist , indiana university school of medicine .  leonard p. rybak , m.d. , ph.d. , professor of surgery , southern illinois university school of medicine .  dwayne d. simmons , ph.d. , director , inner ear research core center , department of otolaryngology , washington university school of medicine .  joseph b. stanford , m.d. , msph , associate professor , family and preventive medicine , university of utah .  john m. templeton , jr. , m.d. , facs , adjunct professor of pediatric surgery , university of pennsylvania school of medicine .  claire thuning-roberson , ph.d. , vice president , product development and compliance , sunol molecular corporation , miramar , florida .  anton-lewis usala , m.d. , chief executive officer and medical director , clinical trial management group , greenville , north carolina .  richard a. watson , m.d. , professor of urologic surgery , the university of medicine and dentistry of new jersey medical school .  dennis d. weisenburger , m.d. , director of hematopathology , dept of pathology and microbiology , university of nebraska school of medicine .  h. joseph yost , phd. , professor of oncological sciences , university of utah .  joseph r. zanga , m.d. , faap , fcp , president , american college of pediatricians , professor of pediatrics , brody school of medicine , east carolina university .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise to vigorously oppose h.r. 810 .  it is ethically wrong to destroy human life , and h.r. 810 would allow for federal funding to destroy human embryos .  as a heart surgeon , i have dealt with life and death .  i have held damaged hearts in these hands , and i have seen how powerful human emotions , coupled with hope , can be ; but human emotions coupled with false hope and misinformation are dangerous .  embryonic stem cells have not produced a single human treatment and have significant limitations .  they are prone to transplant rejection , prone to tumor formation , and there is a significant risk for contamination with animal viruses .  proponents of embryonic stem cell research are certainly aware of these problems , and that is why they view h.r. 810 as a stepping stone to human cloning .  adult stem cells have been used to treat 58 human diseases , and they do so without taking away what we are trying to preserve in the first place : life .  yes , life .  for example , heart disease , the number one cause of death in the united states , coronary artery disease , has been successfully treated with adult stem cell therapies ; and there have been 10 clinical trials that have been completed in human patients using bone marrow-derived adult stem cells to treat heart attack patients , damaged hearts .  and in one trial , patients who were bedridden , not able to walk , were found to be jogging on the beach or climbing eight flights of stairs after successful treatment .  mr. speaker , it is irresponsible to spend scarce federal dollars on false promises when there are certainly alternatives with existing treatments that do not create an ethical dilemma .  and for these reasons , i oppose h.r. 810 and urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on this as well .  mr. speaker , i have been a physician for 41 years ; and like my good colleagues who will not be supporting this bill , i would expect we could tell the members stories of all the blood and gore and problems that we have waded through in those years and done our very best .  i also consider myself a guy who is pretty much pro-life .  this bill is not cloning .  it is not somatic cell nuclear transfer .  it is sound science .  for those who have an ethical problem with the bill , i accept the fact that they have that problem and hope that at some point in the future we can sit down and discuss this issue .  but for now they will have their position ; i will have mine .  stem cell research , especially embryonic stem cell research , is going to go on apace very rapidly in all parts of the world , whether it is singapore or korea or japan or china or the united kingdom or canada , other places on continental europe .  we are being left behind in this .  we have the finest universities in the world , the finest researchers , the ability to bring stem cell research to a point where we will , indeed , have cures for everyday problems such as diabetes , such as parkinson 's , such as alzheimer 's , and perhaps even being able to create neuronal cells to take care of people who have spinal cord injuries .  science will march on .  i believe this bill helps the living .  can there be any doubt that the potential of relieving widespread suffering with embryonic stem cells is morally superior to simply destroying the excess embryos ?  how can we call ourselves a culture of life when we ignore the living , when we ignore the infinite potential of embryonic stem cells ?  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  and the gentlewoman from colorado ( ms. degette )  for their leadership on this issue .  like millions of american families , my own has been impacted by the loss of loved ones with debilitating diseases .  my grandmother , alvana carpenter , died of cancer , and my first cousin betty stolz , to ms .  we lost them too soon .  that is one of the reasons i have joined this unparalleled and growing bipartisan coalition to cosponsor h.r. 810 , along with over 200 democrats and republicans in this house .  people from the show me state were polled not too long ago , and three-fourths of them were in support of this research continuing .  just like polls around the country , when nancy reagan called to lift the bush administration ban on this research in 2004 , three-fourths of americans have come to the support of this cause .  there is great promise in this research .  since its isolation of the embryonic stem cell in 1998 , research has made dramatic progress in the u.s. we can not and we must not abandon our leadership role in the scientific community and in establishing strong ethical standards for this research , which are incorporated in this bill .  i also became involved in this debate because of the extraordinary citizens that have come to advocate on its behalf , advocates like bernie frank , an accomplished st .  louisian who has volunteered for the parkinson 's action network ; advocates like dr .  huskey from washington university , who suffers with ms and continues her advocacy ; advocates like rabbi susan talve and her young daughter , adina , who suffers from a congenital heart defect .  early stem cell research shows the potential to discover ways to grow new heart muscle cells .  mr. speaker , the promise of stem cell research is real .  science , not politics , should determine the future of this vital research .  we stand here with the tools in our hands to ease the pain and suffering of so many across the country and around the world .  to forgo potential life-saving cures is simply unacceptable and unconscionable .  mr. speaker , in missouri 's 5th district there are two individuals , jim and virginia stowers , who did not seek a federal grant , but who used $ 2 billion of their own money to begin some very vital research .  they founded the stowers institute .  and the stowers institute employs brilliant researchers from more than 20 countries around the world , and they are working with the most advanced tools to answer the questions and build the bridges between diseases and cures .  our nation is blessed with the greatest minds and researchers on this planet .  but to whom much is given , much is required .  and so , mr. speaker , this nation has a wonderful opportunity right now to respond to the needs and the interests of its people .  two boys , twin boys were in bed .  one fell out of the bed in the middle of the morning , and when the parents went in to see him and asked what happened , he said , as he looked up to the bed , i think i was sleeping too close to where i got in .  and that is where we are , mr. speaker .  even after the president has spoken , we are , as a nation , still sleeping too close to where we got in with regard to research on stem cells .  mr. speaker , i was recently asked by a kind and gentle lady my position on stem cell research .  this is always a difficult question .  but i told her , i am in favor of stem cell research , research that uses stem cells from cord blood and adult stem cell sources , research that is already showing great medical promise and avoids the ethically divisive issue of the destruction of an unborn human embryo , an unborn human person .  frankly , i did not know how she would respond .  and she went on to tell me that she had ms herself .  and she told me that if research found a cure using unborn human embryos , that she would not take that cure , that she could not in her conscience take that cure that sacrificed a human life .  mr. speaker , let us set a new standard , one that aggressively promotes good research to help the sick and injured , one that respects the consciences of tens of millions of americans who do not wish to see their tax dollars used in the destruction of unborn human life , one that supports a consistent life ethic and gives true hope to those who are suffering in our communities .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 810 , to provide for human embryonic stem cell research .  the measure is a crucial first step toward helping millions of people who suffer today from diseases that are currently without treatment .  by broadening the federal government 's investment in this nascent technology , i am confident that we will be able to offer help to these men , women , and children that would be impossible by conventional means .  the room for growth in embryonic stem cell research is exponential .  according to the national institutes of health , this work may one day be used in gene therapy and to overcome immune rejection .  heart disease , alzheimer 's , krabbe disease and stroke are just a few of the maladies that this research could help to treat and eventually cure .  my region in western new york has a number of great research institutes that boast a rich history of tackling devastating health afflictions .  for example , roswell park cancer institute ( rpci ) , located in buffalo , implemented the nation 's first chemotherapy program .  rpci 's center for pharmacology and therapeutics is one of few in the nation capable of all phases of drug development , from the conceptual stage through manufacturing and testing .  this year , rpci 's strong basic and clinical research programs attracted major research grants and contracts totaling more than $ 75 million .  the institute has sponsored or collaborated on more than 350 clinical trials of promising new cancer treatments and its developing cancer genetics program will rival the world 's leading programs in that field .  the institute has also made significant contributions to the landmark human genome project , and its new center for genetics and pharmacology will adjoin the university at buffalo 's center of excellence in bioinformatics and life sciences and the new 72 , 000 sq .  ft , $ 24 million hauptman-woodward medical research institute building that opened less than two weeks ago .  the three centers form a state-of-the-art life science cluster in downtown buffalo that will transform lives in my district and across the world through the cutting edge stem cell and genomic research .  western new york has made a commitment to curing disease , caring for the sick and preventing the needless loss of life wherever possible .  our innovative institutes , led by some of the best researchers in the world , can make an immeasurable difference in people 's lives .  it would be unconscionable , now that we are so close to the ability to use stem cells to fight off the diseases and maladies that plague us , for us to turn our backs and withhold that care .  mr. speaker , i urge the house to pass h.r. 810 .  we have the tools to save lives ; it is now our duty to use them .  mr. speaker , as stewards of hard-working americans ' tax dollars , we can not ask our constituents to fund the killing of human embryos .  like the rest of my colleagues joining me today , i am strongly in support of scientific research to save and improve human life .  but to fund federal research on stem cells derived from killing human embryos is unethical and irresponsible .  while stem cell research has never been prohibited in the private sector , president bush permitted the usage of embryonic stem cell lines sufficient for extensive government-funded research nearly 4 years ago .  in these 4 years , government and private research on those stem cells have produced nothing , cured no one ; and there is no indication that that will change .  in the meantime , ethical research not derived from embryos in the public and private sectors has helped cure almost 60 diseases .  the private sector has proven the superiority and promise of cord blood in adult stem cell research by choosing to fund those areas .  let us learn from their example and not squander taxpayer dollars on unethical research .  mr. speaker , we do have the power of the purse , and we can not misuse it by funding the slaughter of human life .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished majority leader for yielding me this time .  we are here debating h.r. 810 , which directs the federal government to spend tax dollars on embryonic stem cell research .  this bill , therefore , implies that stem cell research is not already going on , but stem cell research is alive and well in america .  adult stem cells are currently being used to treat people , and successfully .  this bill 's approach , however , will remove stem cells from human embryos .  this will kill the embryo .  and whether we like to think about it or not , embryos are indeed human beings .  every human life begins as a human embryo ; and by extracting their stem cells , this bill uses american tax dollars to destroy human life .  the embryonic stem cell research in this bill destroys human life , and i believe that we as the american people should not destroy human life with american taxpayers ' dollars , not even in the name of research .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 810 .  mr. speaker , i rise today to speak on behalf of h.r. 810 , the stem cell research enhancement act of 2005 .  today there have been bills presented that discuss , among other things , the merits of embryonic stem cell study versus cord blood cell utilization .  this discussion , while interesting , misses the point of promoting stem cell research in general : scientific breakthroughs that may originate from stem cell examination have the power to better , and even save the lives of our fellow citizens afflicted with terrible diseases .  stem cell research holds out hope for those suffering with , for example , diabetes , parkinson 's , and coronary heart disease , the number one killer of adults in this country .  we must encourage this research , and the legislation offered by my colleagues from new jersey and delaware is an important step forward in our attempts to find cures for these diseases .  moreover , the stem cell research enhancement act promotes the establishment of ethical standards with regard to the procurement of embryos utilized in the research .  the only embryos that can be utilized are ones that were originally created for fertility treatment purposes and are in excess of clinical need .  further , the individuals seeking fertility treatments for whom those embryos were created have determined that these embryos will not be implanted in a woman and will be otherwise discarded .  finally , these same individuals have provided written consent for embryo donation .  the development of standards , both ethical and clinical , is an important aspect of stem cell research .  this bill directs that the national institutes of health develop guidelines to insure that researchers adhere to the highest possible principles in scientific inquiry .  here we have a unique opportunity to establish national standards that will become the benchmark for scientific study throughout the world .  by encouraging scientific breakthroughs while at the same time observing the highest possible standards of ethical and clinical behavior , we can go a long way towards battling genetically-based diseases that have ended the lives of so many .  mr. speaker , on the birthday of my daughter , katy , who was born 8-10 weeks prematurely , but still lives and blesses my life .  there are so many well-meaning people who want to see others cured .  we , everyone of us in this body , want that .  we know that .  it is being said that no one will be harmed by the use or destruction of human embryos that were going to be waste anyway .  dear friends , when you use the product of the callous mistreatment of life , even though you use sterilized gloves , you nonetheless are an accomplice after the fact in encouraging future such destruction and mistreatment -- even though you have the very very best of intentions .  how many times as a judge have i heard , `` but , i never meant to hurt anyone .  i thought i was just helping. '' in the recent past , we lost a great american who had been injured in an accident and who encouraged the use of embryonic stem cells .  that man had a heart as big as all outdoors and is an inspiration to so very many of us .  his strength and courage and perseverance in the face of unsurmountable odds should be an encouragement for all who face adversity .  he is quoted as saying something that others have said , but as a justification for embryonic stem cell usage -- basically that we should be about doing the greatest good for the greatest number of people .  that is the utilitarian way .  it is worth noting that if a society only did what was the greatest good for the greatest number of people , that society would kill off the elderly who were no longer productive and kill off the young who were not likely to ever be very productive .  that would also be a society that did not spend time trying to fix something that had been extremely broken .  that is a society that would simply weigh the cost to repair a human , decide that such person was `` totaled '' then clone a new one to replace it .  that society would be killing its very soul .  that is not the american way .  we want to be a help to the helpless , and speak for those who ca n't speak .  a moral society should do that .  to demand money from american taxpayers so that we as a congress can encourage the destructive use of life under the guise that it may be thrown away anyway , is not a direction that this america should go .  our history has been that , rather than destroying life , we go to all kinds of extremes to save it .  if a child is in a deep hole , america sends all the resources it has to try to save it regardless of cost .  when someone may not return from a trip to the moon , we use every available resource to try to bring them home .  when a soldier is captured or out on the battlefield wounded , many others often risk their lives to save the one .  that has been , that should be our legacy .  it is a bit offensive that some would come forward and assert that we are telling individuals with lou gehrigs disease and other terribly debilitating diseases that we will not look for a cure -- that we basically do not care .  we are looking for cures and we are doing so with the most promising avenues available and that is with stem cells that do not destroy life .  it is extremely offensive that some would come forward and say basically that in the name of religion , christian and jewish groups support the federal government 's certain destruction of embryos under the possibility that at some point it somehow may lead to possibly saving a life or lives .  if we are going to invoke the thought of , as our forefathers ' put it , our creator , then let 's at least invoke our creator 's unwavering honesty .  the truth is that this bill is not determining whether embryonic stem cell research will go on .  if it is so incredibly and amazingly promising , do you know who would be all over this ?  private pharmaceutical and health care industries would be in pursuit knowing that if they find a cure , they will be the most profitable company on the face of the earth .  but it is not private investment capital that is being sought .  it is people wanting grants that will be torn from the pockets of taxpayers against the will of perhaps half of them or more ( polling data from those with an agenda is not all that trustworthy ) and putting it into someone else 's pocket in the name of destroying embryos .  embryonic stem cell research can go on and has gone on with billions of dollars from some states and from some private money .  what many of us are saying about this legislation is , if it is so promising , you go raise the capital privately by buying stock to use in embryonic stem cell research , and let our tax dollars go to the stem cell research that seeks to both save and make lives better .  i know this is a matter of conscience , and i do so know and believe in the integrity and great intentions of many of those who disagree , but please do not take my tax dollars for money to destroy life .  let those who feel so compelled , spend your own , but i would hope even then you would spend your own money on the lines with the most promise and not take life in the name of helping life .  may god not only bless , but have mercy on us all .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 2520 , as well as the stem cell research enhancement act , as both bills are part of today 's larger debate on stem cell research and the hope being offered with them .  as samuel smiles said , `` hope is the companion of power and the mother of success ; for who so hopes has within him the gift of miracles. '' that is what today 's debate is about , because at its core , stem cell research is about the idea of hope and miracles , a hope which has become quite personal for me .  as you know , my husband bob , who worked with all of you for so many years , suffered from a rare bone marrow disorder .  i saw what this disease did to him .  i saw his life cut short .  and it is my hope that by expanding stem cell research , other families will have more than just a hope for a cure for this disease , as well as many , many others .  but to be effective , hope and optimism need to be based on a possibility .  this is what we are talking about today , whether or not this country will close the door on hope on the unexplainable , on what is truly a miracle .  it is clear that by passing this bill and the stem cell research enhancement act we will not be reading articles in next week 's paper that we found the cure for cancer or any other disease , that we hope to be effected .  but i feel strongly that the effects of federal dollars and involvement in stem cell research will make an unquestionable difference .  our country has been a leader in so many areas of medicine .  now is not the time to cede our role to countries like south korea , france or great britain .  by doing so , we will not only diminish the contributions of americans , but also our ability to shape and impact the ethical debate .  both bills are an important step in harnessing the power of optimism .  i hope we will not ignore this opportunity .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today to defend the flag of the united states of america .  throughout the history of our nation , our flag has stood as the ultimate symbol of our freedom .  from yorktown to fort mchenry , from iwo jima to baghdad , our troops have fought behind our flag in the defense of liberty .  their dedication and their sacrifice in defense of freedom demands that we take this action today .  and who can forget on september 11 , 2001 , when firefighters in new york pulled our flag out of the rubble of the world trade center and hoisted it in defiance of terror ?  and who can forget the flag that hangs in the american history museum here in washington , d.c .  that was draped over the scarred pentagon as a show of our nation 's resolve ?  we should not , we must not , and we can not allow the desecration of our national and , mr. speaker , as was mentioned , 50 states have already passed resolutions indicating that they want to ratify this resolution we are debating today .  let the majority of americans ratify their allegiance and pledge their allegiance to our flag .  mr. speaker , i will control the time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  so , in other words , if one desecrates a flag to make a nice point , that is a good context .  if they desecrate it to make an unpopular point , that should be jailable .  i thank the gentleman from indiana ( mr. sodrel )  for making my point .  mr. speaker , symbols matter .  certainly the cross has special meaning for millions of people .  the menorah , the koran , we saw that recently where false reports on desecration of the koran led to riots and hundreds of people dying .  the statue sometimes has special meaning .  the symbolic meaning of the toppling of the statue of saddam hussein was not lost on the iraqi people or the other people around the world .  buildings have symbolic value .  the buildings that were destroyed or attempted to be destroyed during 9/11 were not randomly chosen .  the world trade center symbolized the u.s. economy .  the pentagon symbolized our military might ; and probably this building was also targeted because it symbolized the government .  and so for millions of americans , the flag symbolizes the very essence of this country .  it is more than fabric .  it is what gives this nation meaning .  millions have fought under this banner .  hundreds of thousands have died under the banner .  many have died on the battlefield simply protecting the flag itself , keeping it from being captured or from even hitting the ground .  and so for 200 years , this was a commonly accepted understanding of the importance of the flag , the symbolic meaning of the flag .  and then came two 5-4 supreme court decisions in the 1980s which allowed flag desecration under the banner of free speech , which has really offended a great many people in this country .  i think an overwhelming number of states , more than 80 percent of u.s. citizens , disagree with those supreme court decisions .  so i urge my colleagues to support h.j. resolution 10 , which states , `` the congress shall have power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the united states of america. '' mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for his stand on this issue and for giving me this time to express my views .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h. j. res. 10 .  mr. speaker , reserving the right to object , would the gentleman restate the unanimous consent request .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order against the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order against the motion .  mr. speaker , the points of order that the gentleman from wisconsin has been raising have been pursuant to house rules , and we should not be waiving the rules relative to the germaneness of motions to recommit .  should the gentleman from mississippi offer more nongermane motions to recommit , then i think it is incumbent upon me , as the manager of the bill , to raise a point of order , should the rules of the house be violated by the motion to recommit , as they have been in the past .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to recommit .  in its present form .  mr. speaker , given the nature of this motion , i ask unanimous consent that the clerk read it again .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent , given the gravity of this motion , that the clerk read the motion again since , apparently , no one on this floor , other than i , know what is in it .  mr. speaker , what we are talking about today is a fairly simple thing .  the text of the original bill is to give the 50 states the legal authority to , on a state-by-state basis , prevent the desecration of the flag , a symbol of our country .  there is something a heck of a lot more serious going on than the desecration of the flag : it is the desecration of our nation .  in the last 4 years alone , the national debt has increased by $ 2.1 trillion .  we have taken money out of the social security trust fund , $ 632 billion out of that trust fund , and used it to run the country , leaving nothing there but an iou .  money has been taken out of the federal employees retirement system , now a total of $ 614 billion .  mr. speaker , if any business in america had taken that money out of the employees ' trust fund -- -- mr. speaker , the point of order is , why would we take the time to protect the symbol of our country if we will not take the time to protect the financial future of our country as well ?  that is my point .  mr. speaker , what is the procedure to appeal the ruling of the chair ?  i would like the ability to speak to that , please .  mr. speaker , i am appealing the ruling of the chair , and i would like to speak to that point .  mr. speaker , is that debatable ?  mr. speaker , it is my understanding under the rule passed by the committee on rules that the minority is guaranteed a motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , having read the rule , it said that the minority was to be given a motion to recommit .  if that motion to recommit was ruled out of order , does the minority still have the right to offer another motion to recommit ?  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i am opposed to the bill in its present form .  the point of order is to my colleagues , if you think it is wrong to desecrate the flag , i would hope that you would think it is wrong to misspend money taken out of people 's wallets that we promised to spend on their social security and to protect that money in the constitution .  mr. speaker , i appeal the ruling of the chair .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , in the interests of moving things along , i ask unanimous consent to engage the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  in about a 3-minute colloquy .  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  293 , i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the resolution before us represents a promise , a promise by the house of representatives to the american people that not only are we aware of the hindrances to prosperity now existing in the national economy but that we are committed to removing them as soon as possible .  we are aware that compliance with federal regulation costs american companies $ 850 billion a year .  we are aware those costs are passed along from american businesses to american consumers in higher prices to the tune of $ 8 , 000 per family per year .  we are aware that exports account for one-sixth of our economic growth , and that one in five american factory jobs and one in three american crop acres depend on customers in foreign markets and that many markets are still closed to our goods .  we are aware that 1 million american jobs rely on research and development conducted by private businesses and through our world-class university system .  we are aware that 60 percent of american businesses are impeded in their growth by the lack of advanced training in the workplace .  we are also aware that health care is too expensive , coverage too limited , and that small businesses are at a disadvantage in covering their employees .  we are aware that our tax system is unfair and inefficient , and that it costs families and businesses billions of dollars and hours every year .  we are aware that our economy is dangerously dependent on foreign sources of oil , and that it is overrun with frivolous lawsuits that abuse our legal system .  and , starting this week , mr. speaker , the house is going to do something about it .  we are going to take up major legislation addressing these eight sources of economic friction and tear down these eight walls now surrounding the american dream .  the debate about these eight issues : trade freedom and fairness ; bureaucratic red tape ; innovation and investment ; health care security ; lifelong learning ; tax relief and simplification ; lawsuit abuse reform ; and energy independence are over .  we all know these impediments to prosperity need reform , and we know what we have to do to reform them .  with this resolution , mr. speaker , the house will take a first step toward enacting these needed economic reforms to help small businesses create not just jobs but long-term , rewarding careers for the american people .  mr. speaker , the issue of competition is one that is lived out and dealt with daily in my congressional district , silicon valley .  as this resolution states , high-tech industries drive economic growth around the world .  every day my constituents tell me that the united states is falling behind our competitors in europe and asia .  this resolution identifies some of the challenges for u.s. competitiveness .  but this is not enough .  the resolution is not binding .  it does not set into motion any legislative action to address the key issues relative to competition .  one of the top issues in silicon valley today is stock options .  broad-based employee stock options plans drive innovation and competitiveness .  the house overwhelmingly passed legislation i authored with rep .  baker to protect employee stock options almost a year ago , but the administration has refused to lift a finger to get this bill through the senate and to the president 's desk .  for many , many years the high-tech industry has begged congress to make the r & amp ; d tax credit permanent .  it has n't happened .  what has happened is a decline in investment and a diminishment of innovation .  the president has said that the u.s. should have universal broadband access by 2007 .  we 've yet to see the administration 's plan for achieving this .  today the united states has fallen to 16th in broadband penetration , down from 4th in 2001 .  this resolution correctly points to education as a critical issue of competitiveness , but once again this administration and the congressional majority have underfunded critical education programs .  no child left behind is funded $ 39 billion below its promised level .  pell grants will be eliminated for 90 , 000 college students , and an additional 1.3 million students will have their scholarships reduced this year .  these figures do not meet the standards of a great nation serious about her technological and competitive future .  the resolution states that energy is a major problem , yet the department of energy 's independent analysts have said that the provisions in the house energy bill will have a `` negligible '' impact on prices , production , consumption , and imports of energy .  the administration continues to underfund critical federal research programs , flat-funding civilian research and development and reducing total federal research by $ 400 million .  this underfunds our collective future .  what is missing in the congress is the commitment to reshape the critical policies which will renew our nation 's competitiveness in the 21st century .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from new york for his leadership in defense of our economy , workers ' rights , and our desire to build on an american economy that can provide opportunity for all .  mr. speaker , if the congress were to take up legislation for the purpose of removing barriers to the competitiveness of the u.s. economy , i do not believe , respectfully , it would read like h. res. 352 .  but , it might read something like this : whereas , u.s. trade with foreign countries is so imbalanced that the u.s. has a trade deficit with every continent in the world except australia and with nearly every country in the world ; whereas , before nafta , the u.s. exported about an equivalent amount to mexico as it imported to mexico .  but , after nafta , imports from mexico increased 195 percent , more than double the increase in exports .  nafta caused a balanced trade scenario with mexico to become unbalanced , to the disadvantage of the u.s. ; whereas , exports create jobs ; imports destroy jobs .  and when imports outpace exports , more jobs are destroyed than created .  so while increased exports after nafta may have created almost 800 , 000 jobs , according to the economic policy institute in 2003 , increased imports due to nafta destroyed almost 1.7 million jobs .  every state in the nation lost jobs due to nafta ; whereas , congress will soon be compounding the damage with consideration of cafta , which is modeled on nafta ; whereas , china 's seemingly endless supply of dollars to acquire ibm , maytag , and now unocal is supplied by america 's huge trade deficit with china .  in fact , since congress agreed to admit china to the wto , granting it permanent most favored nation status , the u.s. trade deficit with china grew by 50 percent in only 2 years .  now , if congress was to take up legislation for the purpose of removing barriers to the competitiveness of the u.s. economy , it might read like this : whereas , america needs a new trade policy based on the principle that what the u.s. buys from a country should roughly match what it sells to that country ; whereas , the cost of private , for-profit health care is a serious impediment to competitiveness ; whereas , the u.s. paid $ 5 , 270 per capita for health care in 2002 , and two countries with the closest level of spending were germany at $ 2 , 820 and canada $ 2 , 930 , both of which provided universal health care ; whereas , the ceos of ford motor company of canada , gm canada , daimlerchrysler canada wrote in a 2002 letter that `` publicly-funded health care thus accounts for a significant portion of canada 's overall labor cost advantage in auto assembly versus the u.s. which in turn has been a significant factor in maintaining and attracting new auto investment to canada. '' the resolution that we need to hear would say : whereas , h.r. 676 , the u.s. national health insurance act , which has 50 cosponsors , would provide less expensive , high-quality , single-payer health care systems like many u.s. competitors ; whereas , the current course of u.s. economic and health policy is unsustainable , and a day of reckoning could involve the bursting of the housing price bubble , rise of interest rates , budget austerity and the shredding of the social safety net , mass unemployment , and a loss of economic sovereignty .  therefore , be it resolved , congress has once again lost the opportunity to change the course , correct the trade imbalance , lift up living standards in the u.s. and the world , and set the country on a more sustainable economic course .  the coming readjustment will be painful indeed while this administration and congress drive the u.s. economy over a cliff .  vote `` no '' on h. res. 352 .  mr. speaker , when i looked at today 's floor schedule , i was pleasantly surprised to see an item addressing the issue of declining united states competitiveness in the world .  the fact is the issue of competitiveness has not been a priority for republican leaders in this congress or in any preceding one in the last 10 years , and i thought perhaps finally the republicans had woken up .  unfortunately , i was very disappointed when i read the text of the proposal because this plan is nonbinding ; it has really nothing that will make the united states more competitive .  that is what i have come to expect in this congress , this republican-led congress : more talk and no action .  and once again this resolution has failed to propose specific policies that would actually boost technological innovation or our commitment to education .  as many know , i represent silicon valley , along with the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. honda )  , the most creative and innovative place on earth ; and if i were to bring your resolution back to the leaders of the silicon valley , the engineers , the techies , ph.d.s , venture capitalists , educators , ceos , i think i would be laughed all the way back to d.c .  i suspect that you did not consult with any of the people in the tech industry because , if you did , we would have had something with a little meat on it that meant something .  we need a sustained commitment to federal funding of r & amp ; d .  the 2006 budget proposed by president bush continues to cut r & amp ; d .  it underfunds the national science foundation by billions of dollars ; and the fact is if we do not count weapons research , this administration has sharply reduced federally funded scientific research , and this nonbinding resolution will not do a darn thing to change it .  we need to dramatically improve our math and science education in our country .  we know that we are falling short , and meanwhile we are continuing to fail in our funding promises to no child left behind .  we need to reform our immigration policies so that the best and brightest students can come and study in the united states and not be poached by universities who are benefiting in australia and england and elsewhere through our short-sighted and bureaucratic policies ; and we need a sustained commitment to science research and education .  we can not afford to sit back and pass nonbinding resolutions that do nothing .  we could at least enact the gentlewoman from california 's ( ms. eshoo )  bill for stock options .  with an exploding deficit , reduced support for education of americans , a door shutting on nobel-level scientists from abroad , no energy policy that will lead to energy independence , this proposal is worse than nothing because the right wing will not take action on competitiveness and will probably say they did something if this stupid and meaningless resolution is permitted to pass .  republicans are like the guy in court who killed his parents and now pleads for mercy as an orphan .  they have controlled the house of representatives for 10 years .  their policies for the last 10 years have shorted education .  they have shorted science .  they have eliminated protection for tech innovation .  these words do not change those failed policies , and i hope that we turn down this resolution and tell the truth that our policies are threatening the competitiveness of our united states , and this mere meaningless resolution will do nothing , nothing , to solve that .  mr. speaker , i voted for h. res. 352 because i agree that there are barriers to keeping and creating jobs within the united states and that federal agencies ought to review their rules and policies to improve the competitiveness of our economy .  but i do not associate myself with the sense of the `` whereas '' clauses that america must adopt foreign values and standards in order to compete economically .  i also note that the `` whereas '' clauses include partisan distortions and falsehoods that are an ill-considered disservice to the cause of american competitiveness .  mr. speaker , in america , the road to opportunity is a fast-moving highway .  any american with creativity and simply a desire to work hard can achieve their dreams .  anyone can succeed .  anyone can start a business .  our road to opportunity has been an open road .  but unfortunately , our government , sometimes with very noble intentions , is putting up red lights , stoplights and dead ends on the road to opportunity .  the heavy burden of needless governmental regulation is slowing down hard-driving americans , americans whose diligence and hard work is needed to secure our nation 's economic future .  let us consider a few numbers for a moment .  the regulatory burden on united states businesses is more than $ 850 billion each and every year .  the small business administration says that complying with all of the government 's rules and regulations costs small businesses a staggering $ 7 , 000 per employee .  american taxpayers spend an estimated $ 250 billion a year every year just trying to comply with the american federal income tax code .  this crippling over-regulation can destroy the entrepreneurial spirit .  it is a hidden tax on our businesses and on our citizens .  simply put , the cost of doing business in america is quickly rising .  and make no mistake , our foreign competitors are capitalizing on it .  our trade deficit is now an unbelievable $ 670 billion and growing .  it is time for america to reopen the road to opportunity , and it is imperative that this congress and this nation enact a competitiveness agenda .  it is unacceptable that the cost of frivolous litigation now exceeds $ 230 billion a year .  that interpolates to $ 2 , 000 for every american household .  our citizens , business owners and entrepreneurs face enough hurdles as it is .  our government does not need to raise new ones .  we need to focus on eliminating some of the ones we have .  we must and will make america more competitive in the global marketplace .  i know by working together we can do the right thing for the american people , for american business and for america 's future .  let us remove the red lights , remove the stop signs and the dead ends and reopen the road to opportunity .  i urge my colleagues to support this resolution .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman very much for yielding me this time .  and i must say that never have i seen a resolution that demonstrates so completely the lack of understanding by the other side of what is necessary to maintain and improve america 's competitiveness in the world economy .  they go through all of their whereases , but when they get to the therefores , this resolution does nothing , does nothing .  they ignore what those people who are on the cutting edge of trying to improve america 's competitiveness , those companies that are on the cutting edge of competing in a world economy , their recommendations , one of the first of which is to fully fund no child left behind .  they are $ 40 billion behind the curve .  but that is what the american electronics association says should be done first and foremost in education .  improve math and science teaching , you do nothing to improve math and science teaching .  they go on to say support research and development .  the permanent , the permanent r & amp ; d tax credit , not the year-to-year funding that you provide , but the permanent , so companies can count on this , can make their economic decisions , can make their financial decisions .  improve the business climate , the stock options , which your side failed to provide for .  stop having the raids on the patent and trademark offices of the united states government to fund the general fund .  the fact of the matter is that this provides nothing , provides nothing that the industries that are on the cutting edge identify as their most important objectives , their most important priorities , and that is to provide for a dramatic and sustained improved investment in education ; a dramatic and sustained improvement in the r & amp ; d of this country , nondefense related , basic r & amp ; d on a permanent basis , something you have not done in 6 years .  and also they recommend , after doubling the national science foundation , a sustained effort at doubling the national science foundation .  you thought it was a one-time target , and now you are cutting .  you thought sequencing the human genome was a one-time event .  that is the beginning , not the end of the story .  that is the beginning , is the doubling of the national science foundation , then maintaining it .  what we are talking about and what the companies have constantly recommended to us is a sustained effort and investment in education , in innovation , in health care .  universal access to health care , universal access to affordable health care , something not discussed in this resolution , something not done in the 6 years .  more people are without health care now than in the 5 years that this administration has been in office .  this resolution so completely misses the mark that we wonder why we would spend an hour of our time on the floor dealing with this when there are such important items .  the problem is that the other side of the aisle already voted for a budget that does not make the r & amp ; d tax credit permanent , voted for a budget that cuts higher education , voted for a budget that cuts elementary secondary education .  a budget that does not even get close to funding no child left behind , as , again , the companies who are out there competing , not the political rhetoric on the floor , but what they have made after years of discussion .  it does not even get close to an immigration policy that allows our universities to continue to attract the highly skilled students that we were before 9/11 .  that is not working .  those young people now are going to india .  they are going to china .  they are going to france .  they are going to germany .  the are going to england , and they are not coming to the united states because this administration failed to take that action .  finally , the protection of our intellectual properties .  the protection of our intellectual properties is so terribly important .  we continue to see them hijacked on a daily basis from the automotive industry , to the film industry , to the music industry , to the computer industry , and the effort has not yet been made .  that is the report on what has happened over the last 4 or 5 years in this country .  that is the report of what this republican-led congress has done .  and what does the republican-led congress do ?  they give us a resolution with a lot of `` whereases , '' a lot of `` whereases. '' no action , just `` whereases . '' mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 minutes .  mr. speaker , none of us could be against removing barriers .  however , the definition of barriers allows room for a lot of disagreement .  it is very interesting that the thrust of this resolution is that regulations in the united states are barriers to competitiveness , and yet our economy is linked to a nation which has the maximum number of barriers in terms of regulatory procedures , the economy of china .  china is still a communist government .  china is still an economy ruled by a communist government , which means they can set up regulations as they see fit and change the rules as they see fit , and yet we are linking our economic fate to china .  our industries have moved on a wholesale basis to china .  obviously , regulation is not ruining the situation in the chinese economy , and our propensity for dealing with this communist/capitalist country , this mongrel , whatever economy we want to call it , our greedy manufacturing industry has gone there .  retail and wholesale industries are bringing back the consumer goods .  we just love china .  wall street loves china , and china is a very tightly regulated economy .  the greatest barrier one can imagine is there , and yet they thrive .  i want to run through a few of the whereases in this very interesting resolution which covers a lot of territory .  one can not disagree with some of the whereases : whereas our technology is driving economic growth around the world , as shown by the fact that the global market for high-technology goods is growing at a faster rate than the rate for other manufactured goods .  i agree with that whereas .  whereas more than 1 million american jobs are dependent upon research and development ; whereas the cost of medical care in the united states regularly outpaces general inflation .  how can i disagree with that ?  that is a fact .  whereas 90 percent of americans who are under age 65 and covered by health insurance currently obtain that insurance through employers .  maybe that is a barrier we want to remove by having a national health care plan which takes some of the burden off employers .  i would be in favor of that , certainly .  whereas 85 percent of the jobs are classified as skilled jobs , and in 1950 , only 20 percent were so classified .  that is a fact .  whereas 80 percent of the 50 fastest-growing occupations require education beyond high school .  let us pause there .  is that fact going to lead to a recommendation that we expend more money to improve our education system , that we catch up with some of the nations in the world ?  do members know that the richest nation in europe now is ireland ?  ireland .  ireland is the richest nation in europe .  in terms of per capita income , ireland has the highest per capita income .  why , because the irish decided a couple of decades ago to invest wholeheartedly into a state-of-the-art public school system .  now they have moved beyond that , and they are providing free higher education .  so an irish youngster can develop in the free system right up to the end of his higher education .  so that is a barrier that we would like to remove .  so we agree that this is significant , that 80 percent of the 50 fastest-growing occupations require higher education beyond high school , and yet we are shortchanging our education .  no child left behind has been shortchanged by $ 20-some billion over the last few years .  whereas , despite spending $ 60 billion per year on training , 60 percent of the united states companies are prevented from upgrading technologically by the low education and technical skills level of their workforce .  that is a fact .  we can agree with that .  our public school system ought to be doing a better job .  whereas , in 2002 , trial lawyers received approximately $ 40 billion from litigation , more than the annual revenues of microsoft and intel , and twice the revenue of coca-cola .  what does that have to do with anything ?  why did they take a swipe at the trial lawyers in the midst of the whereases ?  the money received by the trial lawyers was money used to defend ordinary americans .  how about the corporate lawyers ?  you do not have a whereas about the corporate lawyers , or a whereas about the tremendous amount of corruption in corporate america that the republican party refuses to even hold hearings about .  enron , worldcom , a whole series of criminal activities that have been unveiled by the attorney general of new york state , nobody wants to deal with that corruption .  that is a barrier to our success and our competitiveness .  i hope that you will address some of these whereases that i have just mentioned in terms of some answers as to why we do not pursue the obvious , commonsense solutions .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i certainly look forward to working with the gentleman also .  mr. speaker , in closing , i would like to just cite a few examples of how republican policies have shortchanged the initiatives which they talked about today .  instead of having an aggressive policy on math and science education , the bush administration has underinvested in proven math and science instruction .  today , china graduates four times as many engineers as the united states .  and south korea , which has one-sixth of the population of the united states , graduates the same number of engineers as the united states .  instead of keeping the republican promise on education , president bush has already underfunded no child left behind , his own legislation , his own innovation , he has underfunded by more than $ 40 billion .  instead of investing in research and development to keep the u.s. on the cutting edge of technological advancement , republicans have cut $ 877 million in federal science and technology funding .  instead of having a national broadband policy , the bush administration has allowed access to broadband to lag .  instead of passing the 21st century bill to increase energy independence through advances in cutting-edge technology , the republicans have failed to enact any energy bill at all .  this resolution before us is a mulligan stew that has been allowed to spoil ; it is a spoiled mulligan stew .  it is not serious .  we have 40 minutes to discuss items which would require really 40 days .  if we were serious , we would have a long discussion of these items before we move on and prepare some real legislation to deal with the shortcomings .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , there is really nothing terribly , terribly wrong with this resolution .  talking about a need to invest in greater innovation , research and education , certainly makes sense .  the vexing thing for me is this republican congress and white house has systematically unfunded almost all of those items .  we heard the numbers from my colleagues , and i will not go back over them , except to remind folks of the recent debate we had over the appropriations bills .  repeatedly , throughout the debate , as democrats talked about spending more money on a variety of different items , the republican appropriators said , you know , this is the money we have , this is the best we can do with what we have .  well , let us look at the decisions that left us in the position where `` this is what we have. '' one of the consequences of those decisions is we do not have enough money to fund the research , education and innovation that is necessary .  all of the items that are ticked off , the national science foundation , the national institutes of health , no child left behind , we all know what they are .  we know how important in the global economy innovation , research , education and skills training is .  yet the programs that fund those vital needs , vital needs particularly for blue-collar , middle-class and lower-class workers , are consistently cut , reduced , not funded like they should be because of the budget decisions of this congress .  part of it certainly is the tax cut .  that has been the decision of this congress ; supply-side tax cuts for people making a lot of money at the expense of all of these programs we are talking about today .  it is incredibly vexing to hear the republican majority stand up and talk about how much they care about these programs .  at a minimum , i wish they would make a choice , they would say : supply-side tax cuts for people making a lot of money , that is what we support ; that is what we are going to do .  that being done , we can not afford to do these other things , and that is okay .  but to stand up today and say that you care about them when you have created a budget environment where they can not be funded is disingenuous , to say the least .  if these are priorities , then let us change the budget .  and it is not just tax cuts .  we can look at the spending decisions of the last 6 years that have seen massive increases in overall federal spending while , at the same time , underfunding these critical items .  the budget priorities of the republican congress are responsible , and an empty `` sense of congress '' resolution is not going to fix that .  mr. speaker , the united states has the number one economy in the world .  for almost two centuries , we have been the envy of the world : a dynamic economy ; a hardworking , motivated workforce ; truly the land of opportunity where innovation has thrived .  the status is changing , though .  we are running a $ 670 billion annual trade deficit which is contributing to our federal budget deficit and slowed economy over the past few years .  this development is not a temporary blip on the radar screen .  it is the culmination of a generation of increased regulation , unsound tax policies , languishing emphasis on math and science education , unchecked health care costs , rampant lawsuit abuse , unfocused research and development funds and a weak trade policy enforcement .  in short , our government has made it difficult and undesirable to do business in the united states .  we have put roadblocks to keeping and creating jobs in america , and we have done this to ourselves .  if these current trends continue , our economy will continue to lag and we will no longer remain the most dynamic economy in the world .  meanwhile , china , india and other nations are preparing for the future .  they are educating their students in math , science and technology , and pumping out record numbers of engineers .  they are reducing tax rates and other economic barriers to entice investments in their nations .  they are pursuing aggressive trade policies to reduce america 's dominance in world trade .  without attention to these matters , the united states is headed towards a third-rate economy ; 5 , 10 , 20 years down the road , we will no longer be the world 's leader or even second place .  we will become a third-rate economy .  that is why we need to take this issue seriously .  last year , we began the competitiveness legislative agenda on the floor , and over a period of 8 weeks , we discussed and voted on issues related to keeping and creating keeping jobs in america .  later this summer , the jobs action team will again bring legislation to the floor to combat this problem .  we need to take a longer-term vision .  for this reason , i am initiating the house economic competitiveness caucus .  the caucus will carefully examine the issues facing our ability to compete economically over the coming years .  we will work to focus congressional efforts to removing the barriers to american economic competitiveness and develop economic goals for the future and find paths to get there .  i encourage my colleagues to join me in finding ways to guarantee a vibrant , internationally competitive american economy now , 5 , 10 , 15 and 20 years down the road .  our goal is to ensure high-quality and high-paying jobs for all americans today and in the future .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from louisiana for yielding me this time .  i welcome the comments from the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller )  .  he talks about a lot of issues that are more important to making america more competitive .  we may disagree on the track , but i think it is important that we do move forward with an r & amp ; d tax credit that is permanent .  i think it is important that we do move forward to protect intellectual property rights .  but he does make an additional point , and that it is always easy to be against something instead of for something .  if we are going to make progress , we need to work together ; so i would welcome him to join the economic competitive caucus because i think together we could find ways to fund technology grants and technology schools .  and i would like to point out that we have doubled the funding for the national science foundation , and we continue the strong funding of that .  the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  also mentioned a couple of things that i think are important to be addressed in this debate .  one is the effect that china is having on our economy , and i think the point was made by the gentleman from new york that regulation is not holding them back .  but let me tell the members what is happening in china .  they have focused on technology .  they graduated 350 , 000 engineers last year .  they graduated more english-speaking electrical engineers than america did , and they have done that because they want to target certain areas .  in kansas they have targeted several industries : the hand truck industry , the auto lift industry .  they are trying to run american businesses out of business so that they can have a corner on the market , and that is why we need to have enforceable trade policy , which is part of this resolution .  the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller )  addressed education .  that is why education and lifelong learning is part of this resolution .  but let me just tell the members what china is doing that i think is important to the debate and why i think they should understand why we need to address these issues today instead of putting them off .  the regulation barriers that we have are keeping us from doing wonderful things that could help create and start jobs .  in china they are trying to create a silicon valley .  they have set up a top-notch university .  they have given venture capital to the area .  they have office space available .  they have property management for anybody who has a good idea .  they have legal advice , patent advice .  they even allow professors and students to start businesses on their own .  the way to address that is by changing our system and removing the barriers .  the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens ) mentions the trial lawyers , the $ 40 billion that came out of our economy for trial lawyers .  just think , if we apply some commonsense reforms , we can make jobs in america .  one example is in 1995 when the statute of repose was passed , which put commonsense limits on the manufacture of airplanes , and the following year 4 , 000 jobs were created in kansas alone , plus additional jobs all across the united states .  all we are saying in this resolution is let us step back from what we are doing today and say if we were going to start this system tomorrow , would we do the same thing ?  will it impact jobs ?  can we work together to create and keep jobs in america instead of seeing them slide off to other countries ?  so i think this is a good resolution , and i would welcome the suggestions from the other side , and i think together we can help bring jobs back to america .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from louisiana for yielding me this time .  the gentleman from washington ( mr. smith )  did talk about some issues that i think are very important , especially when he talked about education .  i think education is very important for the future of this economy .  if we look at education spending over the last 5 years , we have had dramatic increases in education , as far as the spending is concerned .  what we need to do now is focus on math , science , engineering and technology .  we know this is the direction the future economy is going .  the world is getting more technically complex , not less technically complex .  yet we have fewer people going into engineering .  we have fewer young women going into science .  we have fewer people going into the technologies , the maths and the sciences .  it should be concerning to us , and we need to take steps today .  i would welcome their support as to how we do that .  national science foundation money , the nsf has come up several times here .  we increased the nsf again this year , again .  over $ 5.6 billion will go into nsf this fiscal year and we have plans to increase that funding in the future , too .  innovative research is very important .  we need help from the other side of the aisle to get research and development tax relief permanent , and i think we can do that .  i just want to mention the supply-side tax cut did stimulate the economy .  we have more people working today than ever before in the history of our nation .  the average wage is higher than it has ever been in the history of this nation .  we have more people owning their own homes today than ever before in the history of this nation , and we have done it because we cut taxes .  more money got into the economy , and jobs started increasing .  but does that mean we should be satisfied ?  no .  we have barriers that need to be removed so that we can increase the number of jobs and the number of opportunities in america in the future .  i think it is important that we work together .  i look forward to working with the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  on issues like we addressed with sarbanes-oxley , corporate corruption , we had hearings .  we had hearings ; we had legislation on the floor .  we made progress .  we passed sarbanes-oxley .  and now there are white collar criminals in jail today .  corporate corruption was addressed and needs to be addressed in the future .  but certainly we made some movement .  but i welcome them .  i know we can agree on creating more jobs .  i think it is important that we work together to do that .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. boustany )  for his leadership on the floor today and his help in these very important issues of making america more competitive tomorrow .  mr. speaker , you know , when i listened to the debate today , i find that there are areas both republicans and democrats can agree on .  and there are ways that we can work together to make a more solid economy in the future so that we can retain our number one status in the future instead of falling into a second or third-rate economy .  the danger is out there .  we heard talk from the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich )  that it is all because of nafta .  that we have lost all jobs to nafta .  yet we have more jobs than ever before in the history of our nation .  we have heard that we do not spend enough money on r & amp ; d , that the tax credits are not permanent .  we need your help in making them permanent .  we need to make these tax credits permanent .  there are eight issues that we have confined the problems that we are facing tomorrow in , and these eight issues are health care , security , bureaucratic red tape termination , lifelong learning , energy self-sufficiency and security , spurring innovation , trade fairness and opportunity , tax relief and simplification , and ending lawsuit abuse .  today we are going to take a giant step forward in dealing with regulation .  the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  is going to lead the effort to reform osha .  and let me just tell you a little bit about why it is important that we take on these agencies and try to change the environment .  in the past we have had this adversarial relationship between the government and the private sector .  there are fines , there are citations , there are unnanounced intrusions into companies .  employers are unable to deal with this without high expenses , without high cost , without hiring individuals to take care and track what the increasing regulation burden is .  today we are going to start with osha , and we are going to deal with that today .  we are going to try to create an environment where we work together .  you know , we could work together .  in fact this happened in wichita , kansas , where osha targeted sedgwick county , and said we are going to go to the homebuilders and we are going to make it a safe place .  they stood off .  they took pictures .  they fined , they created citations , and the housing industry shut down .  we got the wichita builders association together with osha and we said , why do we not work together ?  why do you not come in on an announced basis , make a list of the violations , let the company have time to make the safe environment at the work area , and then come back and see how they are doing ?  well , they did that .  the housing industry went back to work .  and they created a safe work environment by working together , working together instead of against each other in an adversarial relationship .  that is what we are talking about in changing the environment in america so that we can create and keep jobs in the future , working together and not against each other .  now , this environment here on the floor of the house is an adversarial environment .  but yet we can work together .  that is what we are advocating here , the government working with private sector to make more jobs in the future .  mr. speaker , i am not voting for this resolution , because i think it does not make a constructive contribution to the problems facing our country and the national economy .  the resolution says that trade restrictions and inequality are barriers to keeping and creating jobs in the united states -- but it does nothing about them , just as it does nothing to make it easier for americans looking for work to find good jobs .  the resolution says that bureaucratic red tape is a barrier to economic progress , but it does nothing to reduce that barrier or to require the bush administration to exercise leadership in reducing red tape .  the resolution says there is need for more innovation and investment , but it offers nothing substantive to promote innovation or to encourage more productive investment .  the resolution correctly says there is a need to overcome barriers to health care security , but it does nothing to help the millions of americans who lack health insurance or to make good health care more affordable .  the resolution says we need to promote lifelong learning , but is silent as to how to go about achieving that desirable result .  the resolution mentions taxes and the complexity of the tax laws , but provides no useful suggestions as to how to reduce that complexity or to promote tax fairness .  the resolution complains about `` lawsuit abuse '' and seems to support `` litigation management , '' but says nothing about the extent to which the courts can protect individual rights and the essential role of law in our society .  and while the resolution correctly says there is a need for greater energy self-sufficiency and security , it does nothing about it .  while that actually is an improvement over the energy-policy bill the house passed earlier this year , with its many wrong-headed provisions , it falls far short of what is needed .  in short , this resolution is not serious .  it deserves neither the time consumed in debating it nor approval by the house .  i will not vote for it .  mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution ( h. res. 352 ) providing that the house of representatives will focus on removing barriers to competitiveness of the united states economy .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h. res. 352 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , i would like to respond to the gentleman with regard to ireland .  surely they have improved their public education system .  and , furthermore , they have lowered their regulatory burden and cut taxes .  i think those two areas are largely responsible for their growing economy and the increased opportunity in ireland .  